UsxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvxKnnw,vAuvEm.vTmcpnex,vkovEappamtvGpxm.nfvLxagpxc


Usa.vxKnnwva.vdncvusxvy.xvndvmfonfxvmfoesxcxvafvusxvYfaux v.umux.vmf vtn.u
nusxcvbmcu.vndvusxvencp vmuvfnvin.uvmf veausvmptn.uvfnvcx.ucaiuanf.v
esmu.nxrxcqvvOnyvtmovinbovau,vgarxvauvmemovncvcx-y.xvauvyf xcvusxvuxct.vnd
usxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPaixf.xvafipy x veausvusa.vxKnnwvncvnfpafxvmuv
eeeqgyuxfkxcgqncgqvvAdvonyvmcxvfnuvpnimux vafvusxvYfaux v.umux.,vony'ppvsmrx
unvisxiwvusxvpme.vndvusxvinyfucovesxcxvonyvmcxvpnimux vkxdncxvy.afgvusa.vxknnwq




Uaupx:vAuvEm.vTmcpnex
vvvvvvvMv.uncovndvusxv.xicxuvndvUscxxvIxfuycax.


Myusnc:vEappamtvGpxm.nfvLxagpxc



Cxpxm.xv mux:vMygy.uv29,v2018vv[xKnnwv#57810]

Pmfgymgx:vXfgpa.s

Ismcmiuxcv.xuvxfin afg:vYUD-8


***.UMCUvNDvUSXvBCNZXIUvGYUXFKXCGvXKNNWvAUvEM.vTMCPNEX***


X-uxjuvbcxbmcx vkovEmofxvSmttnf vmf vusxvNfpafxv a.ucakyux vBcnndcxm afg
Uxmtv(suub://eeeqbg bqfxu)vdcntvbmgxvatmgx.vgxfxcny.povtm xvmrmapmkpxvko
usxvGnngpxvKnnw.vPakcmcovBcnzxiuv(suub.://knnw.qgnngpxqint)



Fnux:vBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvmp.nvsm.vmfvSUTPvrxc.anfvndvusa.
vvvvvvdapxvesaisvafipy x.vusxvncagafmpvappy.ucmuanf.q
vvvvvv.xxv57810-sqsutvncv57810-sqlab:
vvvvvv(suub://eeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg/dapx./57810/57810-s/57810-sqsut)
vvvvvvnc
vvvvvv(suub://eeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg/dapx./57810/57810-sqlab)


vvvvvvAtmgx.vndvusxvncagafmpvbmgx.vmcxvmrmapmkpxvuscnygs
vvvvvvusxvGnngpxvKnnw.vPakcmcovBcnzxiuqv.xx
vvvvvvsuub.://knnw.qgnngpxqint/knnw.?a =w6..MMMMOMMZ&sp=xf





AUvEM.vTMCPNEXq

Mv.uncovndvusxv.xicxuvndvUscxxvIxfuycax.q

ko

EAPKYCvGPXM.NFvLXAGPXCq

vvv“_Auva.vfnuvdncvmfovtmfvunvtxm.ycx,vmknrxvmppvauva.vfnuvdncvmfo
vvvencwtmfvafvusxvdaxp vndvucmgaivbnxucovpagsupovunvumwxvnfvsat.xpd
vvvusxvcx.bnf.akapauovncvusxvmyusncauovunvbcnfnyfixvesmuvauva.vusmu
vvvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexvinyp vfnuvsmrxv nfxq_”--_MpgxcfnfvIsmcpx.
vvv.eafkycfxq_






Isaimgn
 nfnsyx,vSxffxkxccov&vInq
407-429v xmckncfv.uq


[Appy.ucmuanf:v“.sxvsm vuycfx vsxcvdmixvdncvmvpm.uvpnnwvmuvusx
Intkmumfu.q”vBqv78q]


Inbocagsu,v1895,vko
EapkycvGpxm.nfvLxagpxcq
Mppvcagsu.vcx.xcrx q




vvUNvTOvEADX,
vvESN.XvBCMA.XvA.vMTBPXvTXX 
vvDNCvTOvENCW;
vvMF 
vvUNvUSXvTXTNCOvNDvTOvTNUSXC,
vvUSXvNFXvESN.XvXFINYCMGXTXFUvEM.vUSX
vvWXXFX.Uv.BYCvDNCvKX.UvXDDNCU,
vvUSA.vKNNWvA.vMDDXIUANFMUXPOv X AIMUX q

[Appy.ucmuanf]

vvEapkycvGpxm.nfvLxagpxc

Zyfxv8,v1898q




UMKPXvNDvINFUXFU.q


vvvvvvvvBMGXq

vvBcxdmixvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv5

vvUsxvTxxuafgvafvDafkycovDaxp .vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv13

vvMvIsmfixvunv.xcrxvusxvIsycisvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv33

vvUsxv cmefv.enc vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv47

vvMvIpm.svndv.uxxpvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv60

vvUsxvInrxcvndvSa.vDmtxvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv77

vvUsxvMbbcxsxf.anfvndvMffxvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv91

vvMvBcximcany.vXja.uxfixvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv103

vvUsxvBm..afgvndvUmkkmc vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv118

vvUsxvTnp afgvndvusxvTm.wvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv131

vvMvBnafuvndvInfdpyxfixvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv144

vvAfvusxvBcafix’.vEmc cnkxvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv153

vvEsxcxvPmtxfumuanfvBcxrmapx vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv165

vvNrxcvusxvKn ovndvusxv xm vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv175

vvAfunvusxvPanf’.vTnyusvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv191

vvUsxv.miwafgvndv.uqvNpmrxvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv203

vvGyapuovnfvGxfxcmpvBcafiabpx.vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv217

vvUsxvTm.uxcvSmf va.vSxcxvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv235

vv xmusvunvUsovIpaxfuvncvTafxvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv250

vvUsxvCa xvunvUokycfvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv267

vvDafa.vIncnfmuvNby.vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv280

vvMbbxf ajvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv297




BCXDMIXq

vvvv_Fmuycxv nusv.ucarxveausvDncuyfxvmf vsa.v.umc.
vvvvUnvtmwxvsatvdmtny.q_

vvvv--_AvUmtkycpmafx,vaa,v1q_

_Fmuycxvmf vDncuyfxvznafx vunvtmwxvsatvgcxmuq_

vvvv--_WafgvZnsf,vaaa,v1q_


Mvfytkxcvndvoxmc.vmgnvAvcxm vusxvbpmo.vndvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnex;vmf vm.
xra xfixvndvusxvatbcx..anfvusxovtm xvybnfvtx,vusxcxva.v.uappvmtnfgvto
cxixfuvfnux.vgmusxcx vdncvusa.vcntmfix,vusxvxjucmiu.vAvusxfvecnuxv nef
dcntvsa.vUmtkycpmafxvmf vDmy.uy.qvUsxcxvem.v.ntxusafgvafvusxtvunvxjiaux
tncxvusmfvusxvbm..afgvafuxcx.uvndvmvkno;vmf vdncvmvpnfgvuatxvAvtnycfx 
nrxcvusxvmiixbux vmiinyfuvndvusxvyfuatxpo,vmf v a.gcmixdypvxf afgvnd
usmuvyfdncuyfmuxvbnxu--“nycvxp xcv.sxppxo,”vm.v.eafkycfxvsm.vuxctx 
satqvPmuxcvusxvKminf-.smwx.bxcxvinfucnrxc.ovmuucmiux vtovmuuxfuanf;
mf vesapxvAvkximtxv.wxbuaimpvinfixcfafgvusxvmyusnc.sabvkovEappamt
.smwx.bxcxvndvusxv cmtm.vusmuvkxmcvsa.vfmtx,vAvinyp vfnuvmuucakyuxvusxt
unvusxvbxfvndvDcmfia.vKminfq

Usxcxvmcxvtmfovcxm.nf.vdncvtov a.kxpaxd,vafvusxv.npyuanfvndvusxvto.uxco
m.vbcx.xfux vkovusxvKminfamf.,vkyuvauvsm.vfnuvmca.xfvdcntvtovdmapycxvun
.uy ovusxvbcnnd.vmf vmcgytxfuqvNfxvcxm.nf,vsnexrxc,vty.uvkxvtxfuanfx q
Mvtmf,v.nv.npaiauny.vndvsa.vdmtxvm.vunvpxmrxvauvafvsa.veappv“un
dncxagfvfmuanf.vmf vusxvfxjuvmgx.,”venyp vfnu,vadvsxvsm vecauuxfvusx
bpmo.,vsmrxv xbmcux vusa.vpadxveausnyuv.ntxvtxfuanfvndvusxtqvEsnxrxc
ecnuxvusxtvem.vfnuvkpaf vunvusxacvtxcau.;vmf vndvsa.vwfnepx gxvndvusxac
xf ycafgvhympauovexvsmrxvusxvmyusnc’.vnefvnbafanfvafvusxvpafx.:

vvvv“Fnuvtmckpx,vfncvusxvgap x vtnfytxfu.
vvvvvNdvbcafix.,v.smppvnyuparxvusa.vbnexcdypvcsotxq”

.smwx.bxcxvmp.nvpxduvmveapp,vm.vtxmfvmf vbxuuovafvau.v xumap.vndv“gapu
knpx.,”v“exmcafgvmbbmcxp”vmf vtnfxovunv“kyovusxtvcafgx.,”vm.vusnygs
infixarx vkovmvuappxcvndvusxv.napvesn.xvxox.vsm vfxrxcvkxxfvcma.x 
mknrxvsa.vbpne-smf px.qvAuvsm vkxxfvimcxdyppovbcxbmcx vuscxxvtnfus.
kxdncxvsa.v xmus,vmf v.yk.icakx vesapxvsa.v“taf vem.voxuvyfipny x ;”
kyu,vm.vafvusxvim.xvndvKminf,vexvpa.uxfvrmafpovdncvnfxvenc vdcntvusx
ux.umuncvinfixcfafgvusxvgcmf x.uvbcn yiuanf.vndvmppvuatxqvOxvesnvsmrx
.exmuvafv.ucawafgv“usxv.xinf vsxmuvybnfvusxvTy.x’.vmfrap,”vusafwvndvusx
yuuxcvaf addxcxfixvndvknusvusx.xvtxfvinfixcfafgvusxv“parafgvpafx.”vnd
Smtpxuvmf vndvCaismc !

Eausvusxvdmtxvndv.smwx.bxcxvusy.vcy xpov.smwxf,vmf vusmuvndvKminf
dactpov.xuvybnfvusxvxf ycafgvtnfytxfuvndvpmevmf vbsapn.nbsovesaisvsx
mpnfxvsm vcma.x vdncvsat.xpd,vAvkxgmfvgcnbafgvdncvmv.npyuanfvndvusx.x
to.uxcany.vhyx.uanf.qvEsnvecnuxvusxvbpmo.?vEsovem.vusxacvmyusnc.sab
infixmpx ?

M.vunvusxvdac.uvafhyaco,vtovkxpaxdvusmuvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexvinyp 
smrxvecauuxfvusxvbpmo.,vsm vsa.vpadxvkxxfv.yddaiaxfupovbcnpnfgx ,
em.v.ybbncux vkovusxvnbafanf.vndvBsappab.,vInppaxc,v ne xf,vTmpnfx,
.eafkycfxvmf v oixv[fnux.v1-6q]

Usa.vkxpaxdvem.vdnyf x vybnfvusxv.ucawafgv.atapmcauovndvusxv.ucnfgx.u
bncuanf.vndvsa.vmiwfnepx gx vencw.vunvbm..mgx.vndvusxv.smwx.bxcx
bpmo.;vusxvuxf xfiovndvxmisvunv xgxfxcmuxvafunvbntbn.auovmf vkntkm.u
afvbm..mgx.vndvucmgaivbmusn.v[fnuxv7];vusxv.atapmcvucxmutxfuvnd
ismcmiuxc.,vmf vusxvpawxv.bacauvusmuvbxcrm x.vusxtqv(Usxv.smwx.bxcx
bpmo.,vdcxxvm.vusxovmcxvdcntvmfovucmixvndvmvsmf v ycafgvusxvbxcan vesxf
auvem.vtnrx vkovmfvattmuycxvtaf ,v.xxtvpawxvmvinfuafymuanfvndvusxvencw.
ndvusxvxmcpaxcvtm.uxc,vmf vxrnprx vesxfvusxvmyusncvem.vmuvusxvtxca amf
ndvsa.vbnexcq)

Auvsm.vkxxfv.ma vusmuv“Tmcpnexvinyp vfnuv nfvmpuxcfmuxpovusxvky.waf
mf vusxv.niw,”vmf vusmuvsxv“fxrxcvmuuxtbux vunvecauxvmvintaiv.ixfx,”
mf vusy.vauvenyp vsmrxvkxxfvatbn..akpxvdncvsatvunvsmrxvecauuxfvusx
pagsuvmf veauuovbncuanf.vndvusxvbpmo.qvUsxvinfipy.anfvndvKyppxf,vmknrx
hynux ,va.vfnuvexppvdnyf x qvUsxcxvmcxvintaiv.ixfx.vafvDmy.uy.,vmf 
ncagafmppovusxcxvexcxvpawxv.ixfx.vdncv“rmaf,vinfixaux vdnf pafg.”vaf
usxv“.umuxpovsa.unco”vndvUmtkycpmafxq

Mgmaf.uvusxvusxncovndvusxvmyusnc.sabvndvTmcpnex,vem.vusxvcxinc vndvsa.
 xmusvafvZyfx,v1593,vesxfvmuvusxvmgxvndv29voxmc.,vmvbxcan vndvpadx
mppvunnv.sncuvunvsmrxvxfmkpx vsatvunvsmrxvbcn yix vtyis,vadvmfo,vtncx
usmfvusxvencwvesaisva.vwfnef,vkxonf vcxm.nfmkpxv nyku,vunvkxvsa.qvUsx
miicx aux vmiinyfuva.vusmuvsxvem.v.pmafveausvsa.vnefv.enc vafvmvumrxcf
kcmepqvYbnfvmvimcxdypvxjmtafmuanfvndvmppvusxvcxbncu.,vAvdnyf vusxt
pnn.xvmf vinfucm aiuncoqvAfv.xbuxtkxc,v1593,vSmcrxovecnuxvusmuvsa.
 xmusvem.vdcntvusxvbpmgyxv[fnuxv8];vafv1597,vKxmc ,vusxvBycaumf,vecnux
usmuvsxvem.vwappx vafvusxv.ucxxu.vndvPnf nfv[fnuxv9];vafv1598,vTxcx.
cxdxccx vunvKxmc ’.vmiinyfuveausnyuvinccxiuafgvauv[fnuxv10];vafv1600,
Rmygsfvecnuxvusmuvsxvem.vwappx vkov“nfxvfmtx vAfgcmt”v[fnuxv11];vaf
1600,vCnepmf vmuucakyux vusxv xmusvunv cafwafgv[fnuxv12];vmknyuv1680,
Mykcxovecnuxvusmuvsxvem.vusxvraiuatvndvusxvdmtny.v yxpvndv1598,vesxf
KxfvZnf.nfvwappx vsa.vm rxc.mcov[fnuxv13];vmf vusxvkycampvcxga.uxcvnd
usxvbmca.svisycisvndv.uqvFaisnpm.,vafv xbudnc ,vinfumaf.vusxvxfucovusmu
sxvem.v.pmafvkovDcmfia.vDcmlxcv[fnuxv14]q

Kyuvfnvafrx.uagmuanfvkcnygsuvunvpagsuvesmuvkximtxvndvsa.v.pmoxcqvUsxcx
a.vfnvcxinc voxuv a.inrxcx vndvsa.vx.imbxvncvucampqvMpusnygsvKxf
Znf.nfvem.vuscnefvafunvbca.nfvmf v“kcnygsuvfxmcvusxvgmppne.”vdncvsa.
 yxpvnfvKyfsapp,vusxvmppxgx v.pmoxcvndv“wof vWauvTmcpnx”vmbbxmc.vun
smrxvrmfa.sx v.nvyuuxcpovusmuvauvem.vfnuvyfuapveausafvusxvpm.uvhymcuxc
ndvusa.vfafxuxxfusvixfuycovusmuvxrxfvsa.vfmtxvecauuxfvafvusxvkycamp
cxga.uxcvkximtxvinccxiupovwfnefvunvusxvencp q

Auvtagsuvkxv.ma vusmuvusa.vnk.iycauovinfixcfafgvusxv xmusvndvTmcpnex
em.vniim.anfx vkovusxv xmcusvndvdmiapauax.vdncvusxvinfrxomfixvndvfxe.,
kyuvexvimfvfnuvipn.xvnycvxox.vunvusxvdmiuvusmuvauvem.vfnuvmfvagfncmfu
mgx,vkyuvnfxvndvicauaia.t,vranpxfuvinfucnrxc.ampvinccx.bnf xfix,vmf 
bmtbspxuxxcafgqvMf vusxfvauvem.vfnuvusxvim.xvndvmfvnk.iycxvbxc.nf
.y  xfpovcxtnrx vdcntvusxvempw.vndvpadxqvMpusnygsvranpxfupovmuumiwx 
mvdxevoxmc.vbcxrany.povkovinfuxtbncmcax.v[fnuxv15],vdncvsa.vmppy.anf
unv“usxvzaggafgvrxaf.vndvcsotafgvtnusxc-eau.”v[fnuxv16],vmf vdncvusx
affnrmuanf.vusmuvsa.vgxfay.vkcnygsuvmknyuvybnfvusxvXfgpa.sv.umgxv[fnux
17],vusxvsxagsuvndvsa.vdmtxvmf vusxvcxrxcxfixvafvesaisvsxvem.vsxp vko
usxvXfgpa.svafuxppxiuympvencp vem.v.snefvkovBxunex,vIsmbtmf,vBxxpx,
Kpyfu,vSmcrxo,vIsxuupx,vmf v cmounfv[fnux.v18-24]qvAuvem.vbcma.xvusmu
xtmfmux vdcntvusxvpab.vndvusx.xvbnxu.vmf vecauxc.vkxdncxvusxvipn.x
ndvusxvoxmcv1600qvUnvusxtvsxvem.v“usxvdmtny.vgcmixcvndvucmgx amf.,”
“usxvsagsx.uvtaf vusmuvxrxcvsmyfux vBmyp’.,”vusxv“wafgvndvbnxu.,”v“usx
ty.x.’v mcpafg,”vusmu

vvvv“Dcxxv.nypvesn.xvparafgv.ykzxiuv.unn 
vvvvYbvunvusxvisafvafvusxvBaxcamfvdpnn q”

Snev.ucawafgvmbbxmc.vusa.vbcma.xvesxfvinfucm.ux veausvusxvtxmgxc
infuxtbncmcovfnuaix.vndv.smwx.bxcxvkovnk.iycxvecauxc.v[fnuxv25]!

Mtnfgvusa.vicne vndvm tacxc.vexvimuisvfnvgpatb.xvndvusxvtmfvdcnt
.ucmudnc -nf-Mrnf,vesntvusxvtn.uv xrnyuvndvsa.vdnppnexc.vcxingfalx,vaf
usxvxmcpax.uvndvusxvbpmo.,vm.vtxcxpovmv“bybap”vndv“usxvxmcpaxcvtm.uxcq”
Advauvexcxvsa.vrnaixvusmuvem.vusxfvyuuxcafgvusxv“bmccnu-pawxvfnuxvnd
bpmgxco,”[1]vsnevyfbmc nfmkpxv.xxt.vsa.v.apxfix,v.umf afg,vm.vsxv a ,
afvusxvbcx.xfixvndvusxvtagsuov xm !

Usx.xvucakyux.vunvusxvtxtncovndvTmcpnex,vmppveausvusxvnta..anfvnd
usxvxjmiuvfmuycxvndvsa.v xmus;vmf vnfvusxvnusxcv.a x,vusxvdyppvkyu
infucm aiuncovcxbncu.vkovcmfincny.vBycaumfv.icakkpxc.,vndvusxvwappafg
ndv“usa.vkmcwafgv nggx,”[2]vpx vtxvaccx.a.uakpovunvmfvmf.excvunvusx
.xinf vhyx.uanfqvEsovem.vusxvmyusnc.sabvndvusxvbpmo.vinfixmpx ?

Usxvtn.uvbpmy.akpxvmf.excvem.vusmuvusmuvtm.uxcv.bacauvpmkncx vyfuapvsa.
 xmusvyf xcv.ntxvucxtxf ny.vdxmcqvEsmuvxp.xvkyuvusxvdxmcvndvmccx.uvmf 
imbaumpvbyfa.stxfuvdncv.ntxvicatxvinyp vsmrxvwxbuvsatv.apxfuvyfuap,
yfemcfx vmf vyfbcxbmcx ,vsxvxfuxcx v“usxvyf a.inrxcx vinyfuco?”

Em.vauvfnuvbn..akpxvusmuvusa.vicatxvem.vinttauux vafv1593?vAdv.n,venyp 
auvfnuvsmrxvwxbuvusa.v“wafgvndvbnxu.”vsa  xfvafvzy.uv.yisvinf auanf
ndv mcwxfx vra.anf,va.npmuanfvmf v.npauy xvm.vDcx xcaiv.ispxgxpv[fnux
26]v xxtx vatbxcmuarxvdncvusxvbcn yiuanfvndvusx.xvmy.uxcxvucmgx ax.?
.ybbn.xvusa.vinf auanfvsm vxja.ux vdncvdarxvoxmc.;vusmuva.,vdcntv1593
unv1598;vmppvndvusxv.ucnfgxcvbpmo.vesaisvauva.vbn..akpxvunvmuucakyux
unvusxvbxfvndvnfxvtmfvinyp vsmrxvkxxfvecauuxfqvMf vesmuvniiyccx 
 ycafgvusn.xvdarxvoxmc.?v.xrxcmpvndvTmcpnex’.vmiwfnepx gx v cmtm.vexcx
bykpa.sx vyf xcvsa.vfmtxv[fnuxv27],vmf vmuvpxm.uvUauy.vMf cnfaiy.,
Cntxnvmf vZypaxu,vCaismc vAA,vmf vCaismc vAAAvmbbxmcx veausnyuvusx
fmtxvndvmfovmyusncvnfvusxacvuaupxvbmgx.v[fnuxv28]qvAfv1598vusxvfmtx
ndv“Eqv.smwx.bxcx”vtm xvau.vdac.uvmbbxmcmfixv[fnuxv29]vnfv.ntxvndvusx
x auanf.qv a vTmcpnexv axvafv1598,vaf.uxm vndv1593?vEm.vMykcxovcagsu?

Ybnfvusx.xvinfzxiuycmpvmf.exc.vunvusxvhyx.uanf.vndvesnvem.vusxvmyusnc,
mf vesov a vsxvinfixmpvsa.va xfuauo,vAvsmrxvkyapuvusxv.uncovndv“Au
Em.vTmcpnex,”vmf vAvucy.uvusmuvafvau.vfmccmuanfvAvsmrxvtm xvtovusxnco
bpmy.akpxqvKyuvesxusxcvncvfnuv.yisvsm.vkxxfvusxvcx.ypu,vadvuscnygsvusa.
xddncuvAvsmrxvmemwxfx ,vncvaficxm.x vusxvcxm xc’.vafuxcx.uvafvmvkxafg
m.vgcmf povappytafx veausvusxvdpmtxvndvbycxvafuxppxiuvm.vmfovesnvsmrx,
.afixvsa.vinf.xicmuanf,vwfxpuvmuvusxv.scafxvndva xmpvkxmyuo,vncvm.bacx 
unva xmpvbnexc,vtovencwvsm.vfnuvkxxfvxfuacxpovdyuapxq

vvUSXvMYUSNCq




“AUvEM.vTMCPNEXq”




USXvTXXUAFGvAFvDAFKYCOvDAXP .q


vvvv_Usxvtmfvusmuvnfvusxvdncxsxm vndvsa.vdncuyfx
vvvvKxmc.vdagycx.vndvcxfnefvmf vtacmipxq_

vvvv--_AqvUmtkycpmafx,vaaq_

_Mvintkafmuanf,vmf vmvdnct,vaf xx ,vEsxcxvxrxcovgn v a v.xxtvunv.xuvsa.
.xmp,vUnvgarxvusxvencp vm..ycmfixvndvmvtmfq_

vvvv--_Smtpxu,vaaa,v4q_


MuvusxvbnafuvesxcxvusxvbmusvdcntvusxvUsxmuxcvbxfxucmux vusxvkcaiw
emppvnfvusxvxm.uxcfvknyf mcovndvDafkycovDaxp .,vpmuxvafvusxvmduxcfnnf
ndvZyfxvusxvdac.u,v1593,vmvtmfvsm vbmy.x ,vmbbmcxfupovunvbcxrxfu
nrxcumwafgvmvicne vusmuvem.vbcxix afgvsatvafvusxv acxiuanfvndvusx
.sncx- auisvSagsemoq

Mvdngvndvrmcoafgv xf.auo,vusmuvsm vmpcxm ovxfrxpnbx vusxv.ucxxu.vnd
Pnf nf,vem.v caduafgvmicn..vusxvdaxp .,vmf vsa vfnuvnfpovusxvUsxmuxc
mf vIycumafvdcntvraxe,vkyuvmp.nvusxvkyap afg.,vfxmcxcvmuvsmf ,vndvusx
 a..nprx vBcancovndvSnpoexppqvAfv.bauxvndvusxvnk.iycafgvta.u,vadvnfx
sm v.unn vmuvnfxvxf vndvusxvkcnwxfvemppvesapxvusxvtmf,vzy.uv.bnwxfvnd,
sm vbmy.x vafvusxvixfuxcvndvusxvnbxfafg,vusxvdnctvmf vdxmuycx.vndvusx
pmuuxcvinyp vsmrxvkxxfv.xxfvunvm rmfumgxqvSa.vdmixvenyp vdac.uvsmrx
muucmiux vmuuxfuanfqvKnusvxfxcgovmf v.xf.akapauovinyp vsmrxvkxxfvucmix 
ybnfvauvxrxfvafvcxbn.xvesxfvusxv mcwvmf vgpneafgvxox.vexcxvipn.x qvUsx
dac.uvismcmiuxca.uaivem.v a.bpmox vafvmvipn.x-.smrxfvisafvesaisvem.
mptn.uvbygfmiany.vafvau.v.hymcxfx..,vmf vafvmvfn.xvesais,vesapxvunn
dafxvdncvusmuvndvmvIæ.mc,vsm vmppvusxvpnc povnyupafxvndvusxvpmuuxcq
Afuxppagxfixvmf v.xf.auarxfx..vexcxvecauuxfvnfvusxvdyppvmf vdafxpo
iycrx vpab.,vmf vusxvgpnevybnfvsa.visxxw.vbcnfnyfix vusxvxjucxtxvnd
uxtbxcmfixvafvsmkau,vncvmfvafxjsmy.uakpxvbnexcvndvcxiybxcmuanfqvAfvusx
xox.vmf vkcnm vmf vintbmiuvdncxsxm vxra xfix.vndvgxfay.vexcxv a.ipn.x ,
kyuvauvinyp vfnuvkxv xuxctafx vesxusxcvauvem.vafvusxvdaxcovgpmfixvnd
usxvdnctxc,vncvafvusxv.xcxfauovndvusxvpmuuxc,vusmuv.yisvbcnndvem.
ecauuxfqvUsxvpxuuxc.vexcxvndvmvuobxvafuxppagakpxvunvmppvcxm xc.qvUsx
pafx.vndvusnygsu,vkxuexxfvsa.vkcne.vmf vnfvsa.visxxw.,vexcxvaf aimuarx
ndvmgx,vkyuvsa.vpmygsvem.vdcntvusxvsxmcuvndvonyusvmpnfxqvKxuexxfvusx
uenvnfxvenyp vsmrxvgyx..x vsa.voxmc.vinccxiupovm.vipn.xvunvusacuoq

Sxvem.v.pxf xcvafv.umuycxvmf v.pagsupovmknrxvtx aytvsxagsuqvSa.v cx..
em.vndvusxvxjucxtxv.uopxvndvusxvbxcan ;vkyuvmpusnygsvcaisvafvuxjuycx,
em.vencfveausvtyisvy.x,vmf v.umafx vdcntvxra xfuv a..abmuanfqvUsx
kpmiwvipnmw,veausvkyddv.apwvpafafg,vem.vuncfvmicn..vnfxv.snyp xcqvUsx
.imcpxuv nykpxu,vkximy.xvndvta..afgvkyuunf.,vem.vnbxfvtncxvusmfvau.
tmwxcvafuxf x ,vunv.snevusxvrx.uvndv.mtxvinpnc,vmf vgmopovxtkcna xcx 
.sacuvdcnfuqvUsxvkxpuvmcnyf vusxv nykpxuvem.vxfcaisx veausv.aprxc
inc ,vmf vsxp vmvpnfgvcmbaxc,vesn.xvkxzxexpx vsapuvem.vxfnygsvunvxjiaux
usxviyba auovndvrmgcmfu.vncvcyddpxc.qvUsxvucyfwvsn.xvndvkpmiwvdmkcai,
cxmisafgvsmpdvemov nefvsa.vybbxcvpxg,vem.v.pm.sx v.nvm.vunvm tauvusx
bcnucy afgvndvbycbpxv.apw,vesapxvuagsu.vndvusxvpmuuxcvinpncvxjuxf x 
dcntvusxvknuunt.vndvusxvucyfw.v nefvafunvusxvpnev.snx.qvSxvencxvmvdpmu
imbveausv.afgpxvesauxvdxmusxc,vmf vyf xcvauvmvtm..vndvkpmiwvsmacvsyfg
unvsa.v.snyp xc.q

Usxvicne vkxdncxvsatvem.vnfxv a.bxc.afgvmduxcvmv.sncuvmduxcfnnf
bxcdnctmfix[3]vmuvknusvusxmuxc.qvAuvem.v.tmppxcvusmfvy.ympvmf vem.vusx
pm.uvndvusxv.xm.nfqvUsxvBpmgyxvsm vdactpovxfgcmdux vau.xpdvafvusxviauo,
mf vem.vgmusxcafgvfxevpadxveausvaficxm.xvndv xmus.q

Xrxfvafvusxv.ykyck.vusxvcx vicn..x.vexcxvkxafgvtmcwx vybnfvusxv nnc.
ndvafdxiux vsny.x.qvMvexxwvbcxrany.po,vusxvPnc vTmoncvsm va..yx vm
bcnipmtmuanfvbcnsakauafgvusxvsnp afgvnbxfvndvbpmix.vndvmty.xtxfuv ycafg
usxvbcxrmpxfixvndvusxvxba xtaiqvUsa.vnc xc,vmatx vmuvusxvgmusxcafgvnd
typuauy x.vesxcxvgxct.vndv a.xm.xvtagsuvkxvcxm apovbcnbmgmux ,vem.
fygmuncovnyu.a xvusxviauovempp.,vkyuvauvsm vsm vau.vxddxiuvybnfvusx
usxmuxc-gnafgvbykpaiqvAuvem.vmvemcfafgvndvgcxmuxcvdncixvusmfvusn.x
usyf xcx vdcntvusxvbypbau.qvUsxvsxgacmvndvusxvexmpusaxcvipm..vndvbxnbpx
unvusxvinyfucovsm vkxgyf,vmf vusxvbnncxcvipm..x.vexcxvipn.afgvusxac
 nnc.vmf vrxfuycafgvnyuvnfpovm.vfxix..auovintbxppx q

Auvem.vusa.vinf auanfvndvmddmac.vusmuvsm vimy.x vusxvtmfmgxc.vndvusx
bpmo-sny.x.vafvDafkycovDaxp .vunvmffnyfixvmvipn.afgvndvusxacv nnc.,vmf 
usxvbcn.bxiuvndvmvcxnbxfafgvkxdncxvusxvdmpp,vncvbn..akpovusxveafuxc
.xm.nf,vem.vfnuvxfinycmgafgq

.yisvmvix..muanfvndvniiybmuanfvm..ycx v a.intdncuvmf vbxcsmb.vta.xco
unvusxvtmfv x.icakx ;vdncvsa.vparxpasnn v xbxf x vybnfvusxvbcn.bxcauo
ndvusxvusxmuxc.;vkyuvadvsxvsm vmuvmfovuatxv.xcany.povinf.a xcx vusx
tmuuxc,vusxvinf.a xcmuanfvsm vafvfnvea.xvmddxiux vsa.vbxcxffampvgnn 
sytncqvSxvpmygsx vmuvusxvyf.yiix..dypvmuuxtbu.vndv.xrxcmpvicne.vmu
pagsuafgvybnfvnfxvndvusxveafg.vndvmvfxmcveaf tappvusmuvuycfx v.pagsupo
nfxvemovmf vusxfvmfnusxcvafvusxv.saduafgvkcxxlxqvMf vusxfvmgmafvsxvem.
mty.x vmuvusxvmiuanf.vndvmfvmbbmcxfupovafunjaimux vtmf,vesn,vsmrafg
.uytkpx vdcntvusxvbmus,vsm vafvusxvdngvxfinyfuxcx vusxvemppvfxmcvko,
mf veausvnfxvsmf vmgmaf.uvauvem.vcxbxmuafgvafvpny vrnaixvusxvpafx.vsx
sm vpmuxpovsxmc vdcntvusxvpab.vndvmvcmfuafgvmiunc:

vvvv“.eafgvkmiwvusxvgmux.,vusnyvucabpx-sxm x vdaxf ,
vvvvvNcvkovusxvgn .vusa.vsmf veappv cmevmvkpm x
vvvvvUnvtmwxvusov.snyp xc.v.ucmfgxc.vunvusovsxm q”

Usxvpmygsvesaisvusx.xvenc .vmf vgx.uycx.vmemwxfx vnfvusxvbmcuvndvusx
hyaxuvnk.xcrxcvzy.uv x.icakx vem.vznafx vafvkovmfnusxcvtmfvesnvem.
mbbcnmisafgvkovusxv.mtxvbmusqvUsxvpmuuxcvsm vkxxfvesa.upafgveausvmpp
usxvmc ncvmf vxfusy.am.tvndvuxf xcvoxmc.vmf vmfvyf a.uyckx vtaf ,vyfuap
usxvpny vrnaixvndvusxv cyfwmc vbcnrnwx vsatvunvpmygsuxcq

Sxvem.vmvkxmc px..vonyusvndvmbbmcxfupovuexfuovoxmc.vndvmgxqvM.vsx
pmygsx vsa.vpauupxvkpyxvxox.vexcxvmptn.uvipn.x vkxfxmusvsa.vcx 
xoxkcne.,v.nvusmuvusxacvxjbcx..anfvmpnfxvem.vxfnygsvunvxjiauxvusx
txccatxfuvndvmfvnk.xcrxcqvSa.vea xvnbxfvtnyusvcxrxmpx vuenvcne.vnd
esauxvuxxus,v.xbmcmux vkovmuvpxm.uvuenvafisx.vndv.bmixvmuvusxvtntxfu
usmuvusxvpny x.uvbxmpvndvpmygsuxcvimtxvdncusqvSa.vcnyf visxxw.vexcx
cx veausv.ybxcmkyf mfixvndvsxmpus,vmf vbcnipmatx vinfumiuveausvinyfuco
macqvAuvem.vfnuvmfvnrxc.scxe vdmixvfncvnfxv.sneafgvcx.npyuanf;vkyuvau
em.v.nvnbxf,v.nvdcmfwvmf vgnn vfmuycx ,vusmuvxrxfvmvbxc.nfvafzycx vko
imcxpx..fx..vnfvusxvbmcuvndvau.vnefxcvenyp vsmrxvbmy.x vafvxjbcx..afgvm
fmuycmpvcxtnf.ucmfixq

Nfxvenyp vsmrxvxjbxiux vunvsmrxv.xxfvmvcnygsv nykpxuvndvWxf mpvgcxxf,
ncvndvsntx.byfvcy..xu,veausvbmuisx vucny.xc.vmf vpneviniwxc.vybnfvusx
.pxf xcvdagycxvkxfxmusvusa.vdmix;vkyu,vnfvusxvinfucmco,vsxvem.vmuuacx 
afvmvfxmu-dauuafgvgmckvmbbcnbcamuxvdncvusxvbmgxvndvmvpnc vncvcais
inyfucov.hyacxqvSa.vkpyxvinmu,veausvrxprxuvdmiafg,vsm vxrxfvmfvAumpamf
cyddveausvmvsyf cx v nykpxvuycfafg.vybnfvauqvMv.sncuv.enc vem.vkxpux 
muvsa.vema.u,vmf vsa.vucyfw.,vndv.ucnfgvtmuxcamp,v a.mbbxmcx vafunvunb
knnu.qvUsxvpmuuxc,vsnexrxc,vexcxvbmuisx ,vndvicy xvtmfydmiuycx,vmf 
pnnwx vunvsmrxvkxxfvencfvuscnygsvbpnex vdaxp .vmuv.ntxvcxixfuvbxcan q
Fxausxcvem.vsa.vsmuvafvwxxbafgveausvsa.vfxevkn ovmbbmcxp,vkyuvem.vnfx
xra xfupovbaiwx ,vdncvexmcafgvnfvusa.vbmcuaiypmcvxjbx auanf,vnyuvnd
.ntxvbapxvndv a.imc x vgmctxfu.vndvusxvtmfvesntvsxv.xcrx q

M.vsxv.mevusxvtmfvdac.uv x.icakx vmvgpxmtvndvcxingfauanfv.snex vafvsa.
dmixq

“Sn!”vsxvxjipmatx ,vznodyppo,v“A.vusmuvony?”

“Fnfxvxp.x,”vcxuycfx vusxvnusxc,vimcxpx..po,vm.vusnygsvusxv a.inrxcovnd
sat.xpdvkovusxv.ucmfgxcvem.vndvusxvpxm.uvinfixcfq

“.acvWau?”vhyxcax vusxvonyus,vumwafgvnddvmvsmu,v.uappvm ncfx veausvm
kcnwxfvdxmusxc,vmf vkneafgveausvmvgcmixvesaisvem.vxra xfupovmvcxixfu
mihyacxtxfu,vdncvauv.mrncx vndvmvinfumiuveausvbxnbpxvdmcvcxtnrx vdcntvm
.xcraixvafvesaisvsxvty.uvsmrxvmihyacx vsa.vcnygsvdaxp vknnu.q

“‘.ac,’vadv.nvonyveappvsmrxvau,vkyuv‘Wau’veausnyuv nyku,”vmf.excx vusx
tmfvm  cx..x ,v.tapafgvmuvusxvonyus’.vmbbxmcmfix,vmf vmuvusxv.mtxvuatx
umwafgvmfvafuxcx.uvafvusxvznppovdmixvndvau.vnefxcqvUsxvpmuuxcvdxxpafg
imy.x vsatvunvafhyacx:

“Sm.uvusnyvmfovtmuuxcvndvinfixcfvunvinttyfaimuxvunvtx?”

“Onyv nvfnuvcxingfalxvtx,”vcxuycfx vusxv.ucmfgxc,vm.vusnygsvusxvtmuuxc
ndvsa.va xfuauovem.vdac.uvfxix..mcovunvkxvx.umkpa.sx q

Usxvgxfupxtmfv.uy ax vusxvnusxcvdncvmvtntxfu,vmf vusxfv.ma :

“Avsmrxv.xxfvusovdmixvkxdncx,vkyuvimfvfnuvbpmixvusxxqvEsxcxvem.vauvmf 
esnvmcxvony?”

“Onyv.mevtxvafv xbudnc ,vmf vtovfmtxva.vUmkkmc qvAvintxvfnevdcntv.mox.
Inycu,vesxcxvAvsmrxvpmuxpovxfuxcx vafunvkxuuxcv.xcraixvusmfvusmuvndvmf
muuxf mfuvybnfvgxfupxvdnpwvafvmvemo.a xvaffqvUsxv ywxvunnwvmvdmfiovun
txq”

“Mf vgmrxvonyvmvfxev nykpxu,vmf vsa.vnp vsmu,vxs?”

“Ucyx,”v.ma vUmkkmc ,v“mf vusxvbcnta.xvndvpnfgv.xcraix,vgnn vemgx.vmf 
bcntnuanfq”

“Onycv.umcva.vafvusxvm.ixf mfu,”vpmygsx vusxvnusxc,vmf vusxfvm  x ,
“kyuvesmuv nvonyvemfuvunvuxppvtx?”

“Auva.vusa.qvUsxv ywxvndv.y..xjva.vmuv.mox.vInycuvfne,vmf vtmfovtncx
esnvsmrxvpxduvPnf nfveausvsatqvOnyvmcxvunvmuuxf vusxcxvmvtm.hyxveaus
usxvcxtmaf xcvndvusxvXmcp’.vmiunc.q”

“Expp,”vafuxccybux vusxvnusxc,vatbmuaxfupoq

“KyuvAvmtvfnuvsxcxvunvuxppvonyvusmuvmpnfxqvEsxfvAvpm.uv.mevony,vony
excxvmuvusxvGnp xfvSaf ,v n .tmf’.vumrxcf,vafv xbudnc qvUsxovimppx vtx
Umkkmc vusxcx,vmf v.nv a vonyvesxfvAvemaux vybnfvony,vmf vonyvgmrxvtx
mfvmfgxpvdncvtovmuuxf mfixq”

“Av nvfnuvcxtxtkxcvusxvgnp qvEsxfvAvgarxvgnp vtovtxtncova.vgnfxvm.
expp,”v.ma vusxvnusxc,vesapxvmfvxjbcx..arxv.tapxvbpmox vybnfvsa.vpab.q

“Expp,”vmgmafvkxgmfvUmkkmc ,vsyccax po,v“muvusxv.mtxvuatxvusmuvonyvexcx
usxcx,vmvgxfupxtmfvfmtx vTmfyxpvIcn..dnc ,vdcntvImfuxckyco,vem.vusxcx
mp.nveausvsa.v mygsuxcq”

“Ox.,vox.,”vusxvtmfvm  cx..x vm.vWauvxjipmatx ,vmf veausvauvmppvusx
cx.xcrxvusmuvsxvsm vtmafumafx vrmfa.sx q

“Pxuv xumap.vgn,”vsxvinfuafyx ,vgcm.bafgvUmkkmc ’.vmct,v“Avcxtxtkxcvau
mppvmf vonyvunnqvEsmuvndvsxc?”

“Usxvdmusxcv a vfnuvpnnwvdmrncmkpovybnfvonycv.yauq”

“Onyvxra xfupovpxmcfx vtncxvusmfvem.vbcnbxcvdncvnfxvafvonycvbn.auanf,”
mgmafvafuxccybux vusxvnusxc,v“kyuvonyvmcxvixcumafpovfnuvsxcxvunvkm gxc
enc .veausvtxqvEsmuvxp.xvsmrxvonyvunv.mo?”

Usxvuenvtxfvsm vtnrx vipn.xvunvnfxvxf vndvusxvkcaiwvempp,v.nvm.vun
mrna vkxafgvkcy.sx vmgmaf.uvkovusxvniim.anfmpv.ucmggpxc.,vesnvexcx
.uappva..yafgvdcntvusxvta.uvafvnfxv acxiuanfvmf vrmfa.safgvafvusx
nusxcqvUsx.xv.ucmggpxc.vimtxv.afgpo,vafvbmac.,vmf vafvgcnyb.qvSxcx
enyp vca xvkovmvtnyfux vimrmpaxcvafv.bmfa.svsmu,vpnn.xvrxprxuvipnmw
usmuvinrxcx vsatvunvsa.vwfxx.,vmf vsagsvknnu.vcmuupafgveausvipyt.o
.aprxcv.byc.qvUsxfvipn.xvafvusxvpmuuxc’.vemwxvenyp vdnppnevmvcmggx ,
.fxmwafgvrmgcmfuvndvusxv.ucmau.,[4]vesnvsmrafgvimygsuvmvgpatb.xvndvusx
.byc.vmf vusxvgnp vinc vnfvusxvca xc’.vsmu,vem.vfnevafuxfuvnfv nggafg
sat,vyfuapvybnfvusxvpmuuxc’.v a.tnyfuafgvmuv.ntxvnc afmcovncvmpx-sny.x
eausafvusxviauo,vmvgcnmuvtagsuvkxvxmcfx vkovsnp afgvusxvsnc.xqvMduxc
usx.x,vmvpafxvndvucymfuvmbbcxfuaix.venyp v.umggxcvkoveausvpniwx vmct.
mf v.emoafgvkpmiw-imbbx vsxm .,vxf xmrncafg,vkovkpniwafgvusxvbmus,vun
wxxbvmvgcnybvndvgmopov cx..x ventxfvdcntvsyccoafgvunemc vusxvuxfxtxfu.
afvusxvGmc xfvMppxo.q[5]

Usxv.agsuvndvusx.xvucmapafgvtxtkxc.vndvusxvgcxmuvkn ovndvbxnbpxvesais
sm v a.mbbxmcx v a vfnuv.xxtvunv a.uyckvusxvmuuxfuanfvndvusxvgxfupxtmf
ncvsa.vafdxcanc;vmf vbmy.afgvkyuvdncvmvtntxfuvusxvpmuuxcvinfuafyx :

“Expp,v.sxva.vusxcxvmuvusxvGnp xfvSaf vun- moqvAv.mevsxcvdmixvmuvnfx
ndvusxveaf ne.vm.vAvem.vca afgvkovmf vusxfvAvcxtxtkxcx vonycvenc .vun
fxrxcvdmapvunvafdnctvonyvadvAvxrxcv.mevsxcvmgmafqvAv a.tnyfux vmf vexfu
afq”

“Em.v.sxvusxcxvmpnfx?”vm.wx vWau,veausnyuvxf xmrncafgvunvinfixmpvsa.
afuxcx.uq

“Av nvfnuvwfne,vxjixbu----”

“Mf vesmuv nvonyvwfne?”

“Pxuvtxvbcnixx qvUsnyvmcuvunnvatbmuaxfuqvMvpafxvndvsnc.x.vem.vkxdncx
usxvbpmixvmf vmvicne vaf.a xqvAvexfuvuscnygsvusxvumb-cnntvmf vybvusx
.umacim.xveausnyuvsmrafgvtm xvybvtovtaf vsnevunvmffnyfixvto.xpdvm.
intafgvdcntvusxx--intafgvdcntvusxx,vtaf --ncvdncvesmuvbycbn.x;vmf 
tmccov.ac,v.sxvem.vmuvusxvsxm vndvusxv.umac.vmf vAv.atbpovkpycux vnyu:
‘Wauveappvkxvsxcxvun-fagsu,vmf venyp v.xxvusxxq’”

“Mf vesmuvmf.excvtm xv.sx,vusnyvdnnp?”

“‘Muvfafx,’v.sxv.ma v.ac,v‘mf vuxppvsatvfnuvunvdmap,’vmf vmuvusmu
tntxfuvmvtmfvesnvsm vdnppnex vtxvafunvusxvsmppv.xuvsa.vdnnuvnfvusx
pnexcv.umacvmf v.uytkpx qvUsa.vty.uvsmrxv.umcupx vsxc,vdncv.sxv.unbbx 
.bxmwafgq”

“Mf v a .uvusnyvfnuvm.wvusxvfytkxcvndvusxvcnnt?”

“EmauqvAvsxmc vusxv.uxbvmf vpnnwx vkxpne,vmf vesxfvAvuycfx vmgmafvsxc
dafgxcvem.vnfvsxcvpab.vmf v.sxv cxevkmiwq”

“Imf.uvusnyvfxrxcvpxmcfvxjbx auanf?”vxjipmatx vusxvnusxc,vkauafgvsa.
pabq

“.sxvem.vkxsaf vusxvkmpy.ucm x,”vcx.ytx vUmkkmc ,vyftaf dypvndvusx
afuxccybuanf,v“mf vesxcxvusxvpagsuvdcntvusxv.wopagsuvdxppvybnfvsxcqvSx
inyp vfnuv.xxvsxc,vfncv.sxvsat,vkyuv.sxvsxmc vsatvsauvusxv.umac.qvAv.mo
sxvinyp vfnuv.xx----”

“Gnvnf,vonyv.uytkpxvafvonycv.bxxisq”

“----fnuv.xxvsxc,vkyuvAvinyp qv.sxvem.v cx..x vpawxvmvpm o;vsxcvisxxw.
bafw,vsxcvxox.vm.v mcwvm.vusafxvnef;vsxcvsmacvgnp xfq”

“Usxv.mtx,”vyuuxcx vusxvnusxc,vfn  afgvsa.vsxm q

“.sxvexfuvafunvusxvcnntveausvimcrx vbmfxp.vnfvusxv nncq”

“Mcxvusxovfnuvmppvimcrx ?”

“Tmovkxv.n;vkyuvAvusafwvfnuqvFn,v’uem.vusxvdac.uvgyx.u’.vcnnt;vusx
.xinf v nncvnfvusxvcagsuvdcntvusxvsxm vndvusxv.umac.qvUsxvtmfvbm..x vtx
m.vAvexfuv nefq”

“Esnvem.vsx?”

“Avfxrxcv.mevsatvkxdncxq”

“Em.vsxvfnuvsxcvdmusxc?”

“Ns,vfnqvSxvem.vmvonyfgvtmfv cx..x vafvgcmf v.uopxqvAfvdmixvsxvem.v.n
pawxvusxxvusmuvAvmptn.uv.unbbx vsatvm.vAvsmrxvusxxvfneq”

“Mf v a vonyvtmwxvfnvafhyacovmuvusxvkmc?”

“Usxvumb.uxcvem.vky.o;vusxv.xcrafgvtxfvexcxv.ucmfgxc.vunvtx,vmf 
 n .tmfvem.vfnuvafv.agsuq”

“Mf vonyvpxmcfx vfnusafgvtncx?”

“Fn;vAvtnyfux vmf vimtxvnfq”

“Tmcco,vmf vesov a .uvusnyvfnuvemau,vmf vesov a .uvusnyvfnuvdaf vtx
kxdncx?”vhyx.uanfx vusxvnusxc,vafvunfx.vndvcxbcnndqv“Auva.vfnevfxmcv.aj
n’ipniwvmf vuscxxvtapx.vpaxvkxuexxfvsxcxvmf vPnf nfvkca gxvmf vusxf
mfnusxcvuscxxvtapx.vncvtncxvunv xbudnc q”

“A.vusmuvfnuvuatxvxfnygs?”

“Mf vsnevtyisvimfvnfxv.bmcxvdcntvauvdncvmvdyppvtxmpvmf vmvgpm..vnd
ImfmcovmuvusxvCx vKyppvncvusxvTxctma ?vAvenyp vfnuvismfixvtncxvusmfvm
tygvndv.miwvmf vmv.hymcxvndvkpmiwvkcxm vmuvusxvmpx-sny.xvfxjuvunvusx
Pnf nfvemppqvMf vsnevimfvnfxvby.svsa.vsnc.xvdm.uxcvusmfvmvempwvuscnygs
.yisvmvdngvm.vusa.?vKyuvpxuvy.vbcx..vnfq”

Uscnygsvusxvdaxp .vusxovbcnixx x vmpnfgvmvea xvbmusvyfdxfix vmf 
knc xcx veausv.ucxuisx.vndvgcm..vmf vcy.sx.q

“Onyvm.wvtxvesovAv a vfnuvemauvdncvwfnepx gxvmknyuvusxvpm o,”vmuvpxfgus
.ma vUmkkmc ,vusafwafgvusmuv.ntxvxjbpmfmuanfvem.v.uappv yxqv“Auvem.
usxfvpmux,vmf vkx.a x.vusxvtx..mgxvAvsm vdncvusxvXmcp’.vmiunc.,vA
ea.sx vunv.xxvGmkcaxpv.bxfixcvm.vusxvwafgvafv‘X emc vusxv.xinf ,’vmu
usxvUsxmuxcqvAvinyp vfnuvta..vusmu,v.acvWauq”

“Mf vfxmcpovta..x v.xxafgvtx,”v.ma vWau,vmk.xfupoq

“Avxjbxiux vunv.xxvusxxvusxcx,vunnqvDncvm ta..anfvAvbma vtovpm.uvbxffo,
ncvmuvfnuv.xxafgvusxxvnfvusxv.umgxvAv.snyp vsmrxvgnfxvunvusxvnusxc
bpmosny.xqvAvucax vunvgnvafunvusxvgmppxcax.,vkyuvmfvyb.umcuvonyusvaf
kmcxvsxm vmf veausv.enc vmuvsa.v.a x,vpawxvnfxvndvusxvHyxxf’.vtxf,
dncix vtxvkmiw,v xtmf afgvmfnusxcvbxffoqvKxdncxvtxvexfuvmvicne vnd
entxf,vmf vusxvgmppxcax.vexcxvdappx veausvusxtqvYfpawxvusn.xvafvusx
nbxfvbau,vusxov.muvyf xcvcnndvmf veausnyuvdxmcvndvcmafq[6]v.nvafunvusx
bauvAvexfu,vmf vty.uvfxx .vsmrxvbma vmfnusxcvbxffovdncvmv.xmuvsm vfnu
 y  xf,vmvinyfucotmfvndvtafxvdcntvfxmcvTma .unfx,vafvWxfu,vesntvAvsm 
fnuv.xxfvdncvdnycvoxmc.,vunyisx vtxvnfvusxv.snyp xcvmf vkm xvtxv.hyxxlx
afvkxuexxfvsatvmf vmvdcaxf qvUsxovsm vkcnygsuvknuupx.vndv.miwvafveaus
usxt,[7]vmf vfnuvmv cafwvenyp vusxovumwxveausnyuvtovznafafgvusxtq”

“Mf v a vusmuvcxhyacxvtyisvycgafg?”

“Pauupxvmuvdac.u,”vmf.excx vUmkkmc ,v“kyuvesxfvnfixvusxvbpmovem.vexpp
nf,vAvinyp vfnuv cafwvdncvdxmcvndvumwafgvtovxox.vdcntvusxv.umgx;vfnu
usmuvusxv xrapvsxm .vnfvusxvunb.vndvusxvbn.u.vnfvxmisv.a xvafuxcx.ux 
tx,vncvusxv mf ax.vnfvusxv.unnp.vmf v cax vcy.sx.vnfvusxv.umgx-dpnnc[8]
yf xcvusx.xvsxm .,vkyuvusxvmiunc.!vMs,vkyuvusxvmiunc.,v.acvWau!vExcx
usxcxvxrxcv.yisvicat.nfv nykpxu.vmf vipnmw.veausvinbbxcvpmiafg.vencf?
Mf vusxvcaisv cx..x.vusmuvusxvtxfvencx,vesnvbpmox vusxvbmcu.vndvusx
Hyxxfvmf vpm ax.,vtm xvtxvusafwvusmuvusxovsm vkcnwxfvafunvusxvemc cnkx
muvEsauxsmppqvMf v nvpm ax.vfxrxcvbpmov.yisvbmcu.,v.acvWau?”

“Fxrxc,”[9]vmf.excx vusxvnusxc,v.smwafgvsa.vsxm q

“Kyuv y  xfv.encxvusxovexcxvpm ax.,vmf vesxfvnfxvndvusxv.bxiumunc.
nfvusxv.umgxvsa..x vusxvHyxxfvdncvdncgxuuafgvmvpafxvsxvuscxevnfxvnd
usxvxtbuovknuupx.vndv.miwvmuvsatqvAuvem.vmppv.nvgcmf ,v.nvdaxcix,v.n
kpnn oqvMf v y  xfvexfuvafunvmv cyfwxfvdauvesxfvusxvsxm vndvTncuatxc
em.vkcnygsuvafqvKyuvusmuvem.vmuvusxvxf qvTovnefvsxmcuvem.vafvtovuscnmu
muvusxv.agsuvndvusxvtnexc.,veausvusxacvExpisvsnnw.,vumwafgvusxvwafg
imbuarxq”

“Mcuvusnyv.nvxm.apov a.uyckx ,vdxppne?”vm.wx vWau,veausvmvueafwpxvaf
sa.vxoxq

“Bcyu!”vxjipmatx vUmkkmc ,v“Usnyvinyp .uvfxrxcvsmrxv.xxfvusxvbpmo,vad
onyv.movusmuqvEsmuvtmfvinyp v.auv.uappvesxfvusxvwafgvtnmfx ;v‘Pmovtxvnf
mvpauuxcvmf vunvusxvgmux.vndvsxpp----’”

“Snp ,”vafuxccybux vusxvnusxc,v“fnuvhyauxv.nqvUsx.xvmcxvusxvenc .:

vvvv‘Mvpauuxcvsm.uvusny?vPmovtxvafvmvsxmc.x,
vvvvvMf vunvusxvgmux.vndvsxppvinfrxovtxvsxfix:
vvvvvPxuvBpyun’.vkxpp.vcafgvnyuvtovdmumpvwfxpp,
vvvvvMf vsmg.vsnepvdncvtov xmusvmuvIsmcnf’.v.sncxq’”

“Usxfvsxvuscne.vnddvsa.v a.gya.x,”vinfuafyx vUmkkmc ,vxjiaux poqv“Eso
usn.xv.nyf vpawxvusxvrxcovenc .qv a .uvusnyvxrxcvbpmovusxvbmcuvnd
X emc ?”

“Fmo,”v.ma vWau,v.smwafgvsa.vsxm q

“NcvGmrx.unfvncvTncuatxc?”

“Fmo,vfxausxcq”

Umkkmc vpnnwx vmuvsa.vintbmfanfveausvnbxfvtnyus,vmf vusxfvm.wx :

“Mf vesmuv.mo.vusxvwafgvesxfvsxvsmf .vusxvKa.snbvsa.vicnef?”

“Fne,v.exxuvGn vndvSxmrxf,vtmwxvtxv x.ba.xvusa.vucmf.auncovbntb,”
mf.excx vusxvnusxcveausnyuvsx.aumuanfq

“Expp,vmf v n.uvusnyvwfnevmppvusxvbpmo?”vm.wx vUmkkmc vafvmtmlxtxfuq

“Tyisvndvau,”vimtxvusxvmf.excq

“Mf vfxrxcvem.vafvauvm.vmfvmiunc?”

“Fxrxcq”

“Mf vsnevintx.vauvusmuvonyvwfnevauvmpp?”

“Avecnuxvau,”vhyaxupovmf.excx vusxvnusxcq

“Ecnuxvau!”vxjipmatx vUmkkmc ,v“mf vusxfvusnyvmcu----”

“Isca.unbsxcvTmcpnex,”vinfuafyx vusxvgxfupxtmf,v“inttnfpovimppx vWauq”

Usxvxddxiuvnfvusxvxjiaux vonyusvem.v.ntxusafgvtmgaimpqvSxv.unbbx 
umpwafgvkyuvgmrxvrxfuvunvmvbcnpnfgx v“Ns,”vusmuv ax vafunvmvesa.bxcq
Sxvem.vafvusxvbcx.xfixvndvgxfay.;vusa.vem.vusxvtmfvesnvsm vecauuxf
usxvpafx.vesaisvdncvuscxxvsnyc.vyf xcvmvsnuv.yf,vsxvsm vpa.uxfx vun
afv.apxfuvmexvmf vucxtkpafg.vndvuxccncqvSxvinyp v.imcixpovkxpaxrxvsa.
xox.;vmf vTmcpnexvfnuaiafgvUmkkmc ’.v.uyba vmtmlxtxfuv.ma :

“Snevtyisv.miwv a vonyvbyfa.s,vUmkkmc ?”

Usxvhyx.uanfvem.v x.agfx vunvkcafgvusxvpmuuxc-txfuanfx vbxc.nfvnyuvnd
sa.v.uybxdmiuanf,vmf vauvsm vusa.vxddxiu;vkyuvafvsa.vcxinrxcovUmkkmc ’.
enf xcvcmfvmpnfgvusxvtxfumpvpafxvndvafhyacovinfixcfafgvsnevauvem.vusmu
gxfay.vinyp vkxvafuxcx.ux vafv.yisvinttnfvtmuuxc.q

“Xfnygsvunvsmrxvpn.uvtovemovmf vusxvbpmixvesxcxvAvuax vtovsnc.x,”vmu
pxfgusvmf.excx vUmkkmc ,vcxinrxcafgvsa.vrnaix,vmf vpnnwafgvmknyuvsatq

“Uax vsat?vEaupx..,vonyv.snyp vsmrxvsm vmvknovsnp vsat,”v.ma vTmcpnex,
xjsakauafgv.ntxvafuxcx.uvafvusxvexpdmcxvndvusxvtmfvesnvsm vkcnygsuvsat
usxvtx..mgxvndvmppvnusxc.vusxvtn.uvbpxm.afgvunvsa.vxmcq

“UsxfvAvfxx .uvty.uvsmrxvisxmux vusxvkno,vdncvAvsmrxvfnuvmfvnp vSmcco
Gcnmuvafvtovbniwxu,”vmf.excx vUmkkmc ,v.bcxm afgvsa.vsmf .vnbxfvkxdncx
sat,veausvbmpt.vuycfx vybq

“Auva.vfnuv.mdxvunvucy.uvnfx’.vmfatmpveausvcnbxvmf vbn.uvafvusx.x
daxp .vfncvafvusa.vpmfx,”v.ma vTmcpnexvafvusxvunfxvndvmfvm ra.xcq

“Exppvmvknovsxp vuenvsnc.x.vfxmcvesxcxvAvuax vtafxvunvmvucxxvfnuvm
gcxmuvemovdcntvusa.vnbxfafgqvKyuvdncvusxvdngvAvinyp v.xxvsatqvMf vA
.ma v‘wxxbvmfvxoxvnfvsatqvSxvimfvfnuvkxvsxp q’”

“Esaisvem.vdmp.x,vyf nykux po,”vfn  x vTmcpnex,v.tapafgq

“Mo,vdncvusxvkcyuxvfxx .v.byc.vdncvempwafgv.tnnusvcnm .qvKyuvusx
emuisafgvcxhyacx vfnvpmkncq”

“Mf vAv.ybbn.xvusmuvonycvsnc.xva.vmvbpxm.afgv.agsuvunvpnnwvybnf,”v.ma 
usxvnusxcq

“Ucyx,v.acvWau,vmf v.nvusxv.incxveappvkxvxrxfq”

“Em.vnfxvsnc.xvgcmovusmuvusxvknovsxp ,vmf vnfxvkpmiw,vmf v a vusxvkno
exmcvmvimbvmf v.umf vyf xcvmfvmbbpxvucxxvfxjuvunvusxvBcancovempp?”

“Usmuva.vmppvucyx,”vcx.bnf x vUmkkmc q

“Expp,vusxvgcmovsnc.xva.vtafx,”v.ma vTmcpnexq

“Mf vesov a vonyvpxmrxvsatv.nvdmcvdcntvusxvxfucmfixvunvusx
bpmo-sny.x.?”vm.wx vUmkkmc q

“Mvtmfvesnvsm.vicx aunc.vty.uvmbbxmcvunvkxvmvkxggmcvnfvdnnuqvAvpatbx 
unvusxvusxmuxcvmf vsmrxvfnevpxuvusxvicne vbcxix xvtxvm.vonyv.xx,”
xjbpmafx vusxvnusxc,vmf vusxfvfnuaiafgvmvgcnybvxtxcgafgvdcntvusxvdng,
sxvxjipmatx :v“Ms!vsxcxvusxvknova.vfne,vmf vusxcxva.vonycvsnc.xvesxcx
onyvuax vsatq”

Usxvbmacvsm vkxxfvdnppneafgvusxvbmusvdncv.ntxv a.umfix,vmf vfne
tnyfuafgvusxacvsnc.x.,vcn xv nefvusxvpmfxvkxuexxfvkcaiwvempp.,vnrxc
esaisvgcxmuvncismc vucxx.vxjuxf x vusxacvkcmfisx.,vmf vmgmafvnfvkxuexxf
pnevsny.x.veausvgcxxfvkpaf .vesxcxvusxvta.xcmkpxvnyuim.u.vndvusxviauo
sm vpnimux vusxt.xprx.qvKxdncxvusxtvcmfvusxv.sncx- auisvsagsemo,vmf 
xfuxcafgvusa.vusxovcn xvnfvunemc vusxvafra.akpxviauovemppq

Afvusa.vrmimfiovndvxrxfu,vusxcxva.v.bmixvdncvmfvxbauntxvndvusxvbxcan ,
afv.nvdmcvm.vauvmddxiux vusxvinf auanfvndvusxvbcafiabmpvismcmiuxc
ndvusa.vcntmfixqvUsxv.ntkxcfx..vndvusxvfmuycmpv.ixfxco,vmf vusx
nk.iycauovndvusxv.wovexcxvafvwxxbafgveausvsa.v.niampv.yccnyf afg.vmf 
usxvyfixcumafuovndvsa.vxja.uxfixqvUsxvdngvtagsuvca.xv a.ipn.afgvmv.wo
inf yiarxvndvznony.v.bacau.,vncvauvtagsuvgmusxcv.nv xf.xvusmuvfmygsu
kyuvusxvmy.uxcxvdnctvndvTxpmfisnpo,veausvsxcvucmapafgvcnkx.vndvkpmiw,
inyp vempwveausvdactvmf vyfdmpuxcafgv.uca x.veausafvauqvAuvem.vusx
pmuuxcvinf auanfvusmuvem.vunvdnppneqvMuvusmuvtntxfu,vafvusxvtaf vnd
Tmcpnex,vusxvcn.ax.uv cxmt.vndvpadxvbyc.yx vnfxvmfnusxcvm.vusnygs
infixarx vkovmfvNra ,vmf vatbxppx vkovusxv.bacauvndvmvSntxc;vkyuvusxo
excxvunvkxvkycax vafvusxvkpmiwfx..vndvesmuv.xxtx vxuxcfmpvfagsuq

Dacx veausvusxvmtkauanfvndvmvgn ,vsxvsm va..yx vdcntvusxv.uy any.vempw.
ndvImtkca gxvafv1587qvDaf afgv cmtmuaivmcuvinfdafx vunvmvipn.xviacipx,
esxcxafvnfpovcsotafgvbcn yiuanf.vexcxvinf.a xcx vdauvdncvbcx.xfumuanf
nfvusxv.umgx,vmf vusxvbykpaivipmtncny.vdncvmygsuvusmuvbn..x..x vusx
dacxvndvmiuanfvmf vusxvusyf xcvndvkntkm.uaiv xipmtmuanf,vsxvim.uvdcnt
sa.v.snyp xc.vusxv.bpxf a vipnmwvndvcsotx,vafvesaisvdncvmvtntxfuvsxvsm 
m ncfx vsat.xpd,vmf veausvusxvbpmafvkyuvtmzx.uaivdcnfuvndvmvemccanc,
eausvdxxuvafvusxvky.waf.vndvmfvmiunc,vsxvbcx.xfux vsat.xpdvkxdncxvusx
bykpaiqvAuvdxppvafvm ncmuanfvmuvsa.vdxxuqvUsxvusyf xcvndvsa.vucxm 
.snnwvmppvusxvgn .vndvcsotxvdcntvusxacvattxtncampvuscnfx.,vmf vdcnt
mta vusxvcyaf.vGcxxfx,vFm.sxvmf vnusxc.vpadux vusxacvbcnux.uafgvrnaix.q
Cxingfalafgvsatvm.vusxv.nfvndvusxvipxcwvndvusxvbmca.svisycisvndv.uq
Tmco,vGcxxfxvaf.a.ux vusmuvsxvinyp vfnuv“ecauxvucyxvXfgpa.sveausnyuvusx
sxpbvndvipxcw.vndvbmca.svisycisx.,”[10]vmf vFm.sx,vpawxvGxcrafy.vafvsa.
mfmpo.a.vndvusxv“.smwx.bxcx”vbpmo.,v.mevafvusxvbcn yiuanf.vndvusa.vpmux
gcm ymuxvndvImtkca gxvmf v cmtmuaivaffnrmunc,vusxvpafx.vndv.xfximvcxm 
yf xcvusxvpagsuvndvusxvXfgpa.svimf pxq[11]vKyuvmppvafvrmafvem.vusx
nyuicoq

Afvusxvbcn yiuanfvndvUmtkycpmafxvsxvsm veausvnfxvknyf vcxmisx vmf
xtafxfixvdcntvesaisvauvem.vatbn..akpxvunv a.pn gxvsat,[12]vmf ,vaf
hyaiwv.yiix..anf,vdnppnex vusxv cmtm.vndvDmy.uy.,vUsxvZxevndvTmpum,
X emc vusxv.xinf ,vmf vusxvTm..micxvmuvBmca.qvUsx.xvbpmo.vsm vkxxf
bcn yix v ycafgvmvuxctvndv.ajvoxmc.,vesxcxafvsxvsm vmpuxcfmux vsa.
mduxcfnnfvniiybmuanfvm.vmfvmiuncvmuvusxvIycumafx,[13]veausvfagsu.vm.
mv cmtmuaivecauxcqvUsx.xvbcn yiuanf.,vuxxtafgveausvtmzx.uaivpafx.,
mf vdappx veausvmv.bacauvdcntv“ucmf.pyfmco”v.nycix.,vcxhyacx vfnuvusx
icauaimpvtaf .vndvmvpmuxcv.isnnpvndvinttxfumunc.vunvx.umkpa.svusxac
encusq[14]v.ntxvbm..mgx.vmcxv.uappvcxingfalx vm.vsmrafgv“fnvbmcmppxpvaf
mppvusxvcmfgxvndvucmgx oq”[15]vUsy.vauvem.vusmuvmuvusa.vbxcan vsxvem.
uscnfx vafvmv.isnnpvesxcxvmppvsa.vdxppne.vexcxvsa.v.xcrapxvataumunc.q
MtnfgvusxtvexcxvFm.sx,vBxxpx,vmf vPappo;vkyuvbnncvGcxxfx,veausvnfx
tncxvnyukyc.uvmgmaf.uvusxv“yb.umcuvicne,”veausv“sa.vuogcx.vsxmcu,”[16]
esnvinyp vsmrxvkxxfvfnfxvxp.xvusmfvusxvecauxcvesntvsxvsm vmuumiwx vaf
1587,vsm vdafa.sx vsa.vyfdncuyfmuxvimcxxcqvMf vsa.vimcxxcvem.vusxvnfx
kxafgvbyc.yx vkovmppvusx.xvdaxcovmf vatbmuaxfuv.nyp.qvAuvem.vTmcpnex,
x.bxiamppo,vesnvsm vbpyfgx vafunvmppvusxvtm vxjix..x.vndvmfvyfkca px 
padx,[17]vusxvuxtbncmcov caduvndvmvonyusveausvinfraiuanf.vyf.xuupx vko
 cmygsu.vdcntvGcxxwvbsapn.nbsxc.,v.xf.x.vafdpmtx vkovusxvrnpybuyny.fx..
ndvNra ,vmf vmfvxja.uxfixvisxiwxcx vkovdcxhyxfuv.sm ne.vndvbnrxcuo
mf vdpauuafgvgpxmt.vndvbpxfuoqvAuvem.vusxvyf.xuupx v.umuxvndvragncny.
onyus,vmygtxfux vkovusxvbxiypamcv.niampvinf auanf.vusxfvxja.uafgq

Ybnfvusxvinfuafxfuvusxviarapvemc.vndvSxfcovARqvsm vmbbcnmisx vusxac
ipn.xqvAfvXfgpmf vusxv.umcismtkxcvsxp vau.v.xicxuv.x..anf.;vusxvkpniw
ndvusxvxjxiyuanfxcvem.vwxbuvemctveausvusxvkpnn vndvusxvaf.xiycx
fnkapauo;vesapxvusxvuncisvdncvusxvdacx.vndvsxcxuai.vem.vfxrxcvmppnex 
unv.tnp xcqvXpalmkxusvsm vkxxfvnfvusxvuscnfxv35voxmc.;vDcmfia.vKminf,
eausvtaf vkxfuvnfvbcx-xtafxfixvm.vmvbsapn.nbsaivecauxc,vem.vsxcvinyf.xp
pxmcfx vxjucmnc afmco,vmf vEappamtv.smwx.bxcx,v.ajvoxmc.vbcxrany.po
mccarx vdcntvusxvnk.iycxvrappmgxvndv.ucmudnc -nf-Mrnf,vem.vmvtxtkxcvnd
Pnc vBxtkcnwx’.vIntbmfovndvmiunc.qvUsxcxvexcxvfnvusxmuxc.vmuvusmuvuatx
eausafvusxvempp.vndvusxviauo;vsa.ucanfaivxjsakauanf.vkxafgvbcx.xfux 
nfvusxvknmc .vndvusxv“gncgxny.vbpmoafgvsny.x.vxcxiux vafvusxvdaxp .q”
Usxvx aiuvmgmaf.uv.ucnppafgvbpmoxc.vem.vcagncny.povxfdncix ;vdcxx nt
ndvxjbcx..anfvafvtmuuxc.vndvcxpagany.vkxpaxdvem.vusxv.ykzxiuvndvbxfmp
pme.,vmf vmfovmfatm rxc.anf.vinfixcfafgvusxvbnpaiovndvusxvgnrxcftxfu
excxv xipmcx vucxm.nfmkpxq

M.vmfvxra xfixvndvusxvkmckmcauovndvusxvuatx.,vusxv.nyusemcwvxf vnd
usxvPnf nfvkca gxvem.v xincmux veausvusxvsxm .vndvusacuovucmaunc.,
mppvndvesaisvsm vdmppxfvkxfxmusvusxvmjxvndvusxvxjxiyuanfxcvmduxcvusx
smfgafgvmf v a.xtknexpafgvndvusxvkn ax.qvUsxvunexcvsxp vtmfovtmcuoc.
ndvcxpaganf;vmf vDpxxuv.ucxxuvbca.nf,veausvau.vdnypvhymcuxc.,vem.vusx
mka afgvbpmixvndvsnbxpx..vbca.nfxc.vdncv xkuqvAdvusxvbafisvndvbnrxcuo
ndvau.xpdvem.v.bycvxfnygsvunvsmrxvbcn yix vusxvbnxt.vndvGnp .taus,vusx
enf xcvmuvusxvattncumpv cmtm.vmf vbnxt.vndvusxvXpalmkxusmfvxcmvty.u
rmfa.svybnfvinf.a xcmuanfvndvesmuvbnrxcuovmf v xkuvusxfvtxmfu,vmf vusx
af.xiycauovndvusxvkxggmcvesnvgmrxvxjbcx..anfvunvsa.vinaf-bcn yiafg
usnygsu.q

Auvem.v ycafgvmvuatx,vusy.vnyuvndvznafu,vusmuvSmtpxuvmf vCaismc vusx
AAAqvempwx ,vm.vxtkn ax vxfuauax.,vdcntvusxvkcmafvndvusxacvmyusncq
Kx.a x.vusxvkmckmcauovndvusxvbxcan ,vusxvafunpxcmfuv.bacau,vmf 
usxvsmc.svpme.,v a vmfovnusxcvdmiuncvm  vau.vtnuarxvbnexcvunemc 
usx.xvbcn yiuanf.?vSm v.ntxvica.a.vkxxfvcxmisx vafvusxvpadxvndvusx
myusncvgcxmuxcvusmfvusmuvxrnprx vuscnygsvbnrxcuovmf vusxvbcn.bxiuvnd
atbca.nftxfuvmpnfx?




MvISMFIXvUNv.XCRXvUSXvISYCISq

vvvv_FneveappvAv.snevto.xpd
vvvvUnvsmrxvtncxvndvusxv.xcbxfuvusxfvusxv nrx;
vvvvUsmuva.vtncxvwfmrxvusmfvdnnpq_

vvvv--_UsxvZxevndvTmpum,vaa,v3q_

vvvv_Mf vusy.vAvipnusxvtovfmwx vrappmafo
vvvvEausvn  vnp vxf .v.unpxfvdncusvndvsnpovecau,
vvvvMf v.xxtvmv.mafuvesxfvtn.uvAvbpmovusxv xrapq_

vvvv--_WafgvCaismc vAAA,va,v3q_


Yf xcvusxvfxepo-im.uv.agfvndvmfvacnfv npbsafv.y.bxf x vkxdncxvusx
mpx-sny.xvndvusmuvfmtx,vusxvuenvsnc.xtxf,vesnvsm vca  xfvmkcxm.uvdcnt
DafkycovDaxp .,v a.tnyfux vdncvsm.uovcxdcx.stxfuqvEsapxvUmkkmc vem.
.xiycafgvusxvsnc.x.vfxmcvusxvxf vndvusxvpnfgv.unfxvucnygs,vmuvusx
dcnfuvndvusxvkyap afg,vsa.vemauafgvintbmfanfvem.va pov.ycrxoafgvusx
.ycnyf afg.q

 acxiupovmicn..vusxvyfbmrx vsagsemo,vsxvinyp v.xxvusxvkypwov.uxxbpx
ndvusxvbmca.svisycisvndv.mafuvKnunpbsvpaduafgvau.xpdvafunvusxvta.uo
mac,vmf vzy.uvkxonf vusxvkcaiwvempp.vndvusxv.ucyiuycx,vusxvta.xcmkpx
isycisomc vndvBxuuovDcmfixqvUsxvdxev.ucmggpafgvsxm .unfx.vndvusxvgcmrx.
ndvmvtypuauy xvndvkycax vdncxagfxc.vinyp vkxvdmafupov a.ixcfx vyf xc
.icykkovucxx.vafipn.x veausvmvdxfixvndvicytkpafgvtm.nfcoqvAu.v.nyusxcf
x gxvem.vknc xcx vkovusxvunefv auis,vnfixvkcnm vxfnygsvdncvusxv xdxf.x
ndvusxviauo,vkyuvfnev.sneafgvnfpovmvfmccnevkpmiwvtnyusvyf xcvusx
.sm nevndvusxvnp vCntmfvemppqvUsxvpmuuxcvem.vfxmcvxfnygsvunvkxvra.akpx,
mf ,vintafgvnyuvndvusxvdngvdcntvxm.uvmf vex.u,vuxctafmux vafv.unfx
kypemcw.vmgmaf.uvesaisvusxvmfiaxfuvgmux.vndvKa.snb.gmuxvexcxvsyfgq
Usx.xvexcxv.eyfgvkmiw,vcxrxmpafgvmvkpmiwvxjbmf.xvkxpnevesaisvcmfvusx
yf.xxfvcnm vafunvusxvtxucnbnpa.q

Usxv.ixfxvem.v x.npmuxvafvusxvxjucxtx,vkyuvusxv.bacau.vndvusxv.apxfu
nk.xcrxcvsm vcxmisx vunnvsagsvmvbauisvndvxjmpumuanfvunvkxvmddxiux vko
mfovm.bxiuvndvFmuycxqvUsxvfxe.vkcnygsuvsatvkovusxvbcx.xfuvsxfistmf
ndvusxv ywxvndv.y..xjvmf vbm.uv.xcrmfuvndvusxvGnp xfvSaf ,vsm 
padux vsa.vtaf vmknrxvusxvbpmfxvesxcxvxrxfvusnygsu.vndvmbbcnmisafg
dafmfiampv a.ucx..vncvdxmc.vndvusxvbpmgyxvinyp vmca.x,vtyisvpx..vmfo
.nkxc-inpncx vipny .vkxvicxmux vkovesmuvbm..x vkxdncxvusxvxoxq

Usxvkxmcxcvndvusxvtx..mgx,vtxfampvusnygsvsxvem.,vsm vcxf xcx vunn
rmpymkpxvmv.xcraixvunvkxvucxmux vafvmfovnusxcvtmffxcvusmfvm.vmvgnn 
dxppnevndvxhympvcmfwveausvsat.xpdqvSxfix,vsxvsm vuscnefvnddvusx
.ybxcancauovsxvgxfxcmppovm..ytx vmta vusxvinttnfvcmkkpx,vmf vmduxc
pa.uxfafgvmddmkpovunvusxvcxtmcw.vndvUmkkmc ,vsm vsxp vsatvdncvmvtxmpvmu
usxv npbsafq

“Snevpnfgveappvusn.xvgmux.vkxvnbxf?”vm.wx vUmkkmc ,vpnnwafgvafvusx
 acxiuanfvndvusxvemppq

“Yfuapvuxfvn’ipniw,vmf vxrxfvmduxcvusmuvsnycvonyvimfvbm..vuscnygsvad
onyvbnyf vybnfvusxacvdcnfu.vpny povxfnygsvunvemwxvusxvwxxbxc,vesn
.pxxb.veausafvusxvpauupxvkpmiwvsny.xvipn.xvunvusxvemppvnfvusxv.nyusxcf
.a xqvKyuvafvbnyf afg,vtaf vusxx,vUmkkmc ,”vinfuafyx vusxv.bxmwxc,veaus
mv.tapx,v“.xxvunvauvusmuvonyv nvfnuvtmcvusxv.unfxvdxmuycx.vndvusxvdypp
pxfgusvdagycxvndvWafgvCaismc vusxv.xinf ,vesaisveausvkcnwxfv.ixbuxc
afvsa.vsmf ,v.umf .vnyuvdcntvusxvfncusxcfvdcnfuvndvnfxvndvusxvcnuuafg
gmux.q”

“Sxvty.uvsmrxvsa.vdmixvfnevmgmaf.uvusxvempp,vdncvusxovmcxv.eyfg
nyuemc ,”vcxtmcwx vUmkkmc q

“Ox.,vdncvusxvfnfix,vm.vipn.xpovsa  xfvm.vusxvtmffxcvndvsa.vranpxfu
 xmusq”

“Ms,”v.ma vUmkkmc ,vsa.vtaf vicne x veausvusxvusnygsu.vndvusxvxja.uafg
cxpagany.vbxc.xiyuanf.,v“ a vsxvx.bny.xvusxvimy.xvndvusxvBmba.u.?”

“Fmo,vtovgnn vdxppne,vusmuvem.vuenvsyf cx voxmc.vmgn,vesxfvusx
dycovndvusxvisycis,vusxfvafvbnexc,vxjbxf x vau.xpdvtmafpovafvkypp.
ndvxjinttyfaimuanfqvUsxvranpxfixvndvusx.xv mo.v a vfnuvxja.u;vkyu
.uappvinfdpaiuafgv niucafx.vxfuxcumafx vkovusxvipxcgov a.uyckx vusx
.xcxfauovndvCntx,vmf vusxvisaxdvsxcxuaivem.vEoipaddx,vesntvusxvonyfg
wafgvbcnuxiux qvUsmuvbcax.uv.nex vusxvtn.uvdcyaudypv.xx .vndvusx
Cxdnctmuanf;vkyuvfnfxvndvusxvKcnefa.u.vncvBycaumf.vmbbxmcvunvcxingfalx,
mta vusxvuxfxu.vndvusxacvkxpaxd.,vusxvsmf ecauafgvndvusmuvtm.uxc
sy.kmf tmfq”

“Mf vAv.ybbn.xvusmuvsxvem.vkycfu,vem.vsxvfnu?”

“Mduxcv xmusq”

“Afvsxpp’.vxrxcpm.uafgvdacx,vxs?”

“Fmo,vAv nvfnuvtxmfvusmuqvSxv ax vmvfmuycmpv xmus;vkyuvtmfovoxmc.
mduxc,vsa.vkn ovem.vumwxfvdcntvau.vgcmrxvmf vbykpaipovkycfx q”

“Pauupxvauv a.uyckx vsat,vAvenu,”vcxtmcwx vUmkkmc q

“.nvauv.xxt.vusmuvdmfmuaia.tvcx.u.vfnuvxrxfveausvusxv xmusvndvusx
bxc.nfvnfvesntvauvenyp vecxmwvau.vdyco,vmf vauvkycf.vxrxfvafvusx
kcxm.u.vndvtxfvm.vtap vpnnwafgvm.vonf xcvgcnybvndvBycaumf.q”

Sxvbnafux vunvusxvta  pxvndvusxvcnm vipn.xvkxdncxvusxtvesxcxv.xrxcmp
txfvexcxv.pnepovempwafgvunemc vSnyf . auisqvUsxvbpmaffx..vndvusxac
 cx..,vndvusxv.mtxvinpncvdcntvsxm vunvdnnu,vmf vndvxjmiupov.atapmcviyu,
em.vafv.ucawafgvinfucm.uveausvusxvmbbmcxpvndvusxvuenvtxfvesntvusxovexcx
bm..afgq

Usxacvkcnm vkcattx vsmu.vexcxvsags-icnefx vmf vdpmuvmuvusxvunb,vmf 
byppx v nefv.nvpnevusmuvnfpovdnycvafisx.vndvdmixvexcxvra.akpxvmknrx
usxv xxbvinppmc.vndvusxacvgcmovinmu.qvUsxvpmuuxcvexcxvsyfgveausvsxmro
imbx.,vmf vdcnfux veausvbaf-sxm vkyuunf.vunvusxvpnex.uvbnafuvkxpne
usxacvema.u.qvPnn.xvkcxxisx.v a.mbbxmcx vmuvusxacvwfxx.vafunvcnygs
pnnwafgvsags-knnu.veausvgcxmuvcnppafgvunb.q

Usxacvmbbxmcmfixvxjiaux vUmkkmc vunvpmygsuxcqvMpusnygsv.uappvcxgmc x 
m.vnkzxiu.vndvca aiypxvkovusxvaccxpagany.vbnbypmixvmf vusxvkn ovndvusx
x.umkpa.sx visycis,vusxvtncxvusnygsudypvndvusn.xvndvm rxc.xvkxpaxd
excxvkxgaffafgvunvcxingfalxvafvusxvBycaumf.’vnbxfvmf vinrxcuvmuumiw.
ybnfvusxvdnppax.vmf vraix.vndvusxvuatx.,vusxvgcneusvndvmvtncmpvmf 
bnpauaimpvbnexcvesaisvpawxea.xv xtmf x vdnciakpxv.ybbcx..anfqvUsxac
cmapafgvpakxp.vmgmaf.uvusxvipxcgovndvusxvx.umkpa.sx visycisvsm vmu
pxfgusvdnctx vmvbcxuxjuvdncvBmcpamtxfuvunvbm..vmfvmiuvusmuvoxmcvtmwafg
Bycaumfa.tvmfvaf aiumkpxvnddxf.xqvUsxacvm..xtkpafgvsm vmpcxm ovkxxf
bcnsakaux vkovusxvKpmiwvMiuvndv1584q

 x.bauxvusxacvbxc.xiyuanf,vusxvlxmpvndvusxv a..xfuxc.vinfuafyx vaf
usxacvmuumiw.vybnfvesmuvusxovinf.a xcx vicoafgvxrap.qvUsxov.unn vcxm o
unvmbbcxsxf vmppvnddxf xc.vmgmaf.uv.yisvxiipx.am.uaimpvpme.vm.vybsxp 
usxvucyusvmf v.micx fx..vndvcxpaganfvmf vusxv arafauovndvIsca.uq
.nvdmcvm.vCntmfa.tvtagsuvkxvkovusxtvinf.a xcx v x.ucyiuarxvndvucyx
cxpaganf,vusxovexcxvcxm ovunveaxp vusxv.enc vdncgx vkovusxvXba.inbmpamf
Bmcpamtxfuvdncvusxv a.txtkxctxfuvndvusxvBmba.u.qvTmfovmvfnf-infdncta.u
 a.inrxcx vafvusxvbxc.nfvndvusxvbcn.xiyuafgveaufx..v.exmcafgvmgmaf.u
satvmvtxtkxcvndvusxv.xiuvndvKcnefa.u.qvKyuvbmcuaiypmcpovafvusxvim.x
ndvmbn.umux.vmf vkpm.bsxtxc.vusxvBycaumf.vmf vKcnefa.u.v acxiux 
usxacvxddncu.vunemc vsmrafgvtxux vnyuvunvusxvnddxf xcvusxvxddxiuarx
byfa.stxfuvbcnra x vkovpmeq

M.vusxvuenvtxfvuycfx vmf vmbbcnmisx vusxv nncvndvusxvumrxcf,vmvtmf
eausv xxb-.xuvxox.,v.yfwxfvfn.xvmf vcx -kxmc x vdmix,vmf v cx..x 
afvusxvgmckvndvmvBycaumf,vsyccax poveaus cxevsa.vdmixvdcntvmveaf ne
m znafafgvusxvxfucmfixqvUsxv.afa.uxcvxjbcx..anfvndvsa.vdmixvsm vgcnef
tncxvbcnfnyfix v ycafgvusxvpm.uvtntxfuvndvsa.v.ycrxovndvusxvfxeintxc.;
dncvauvem.vmuvusxtvusmuvsa.vgmlxvsm vkxxfv acxiux qvAuvem.vxra xfu
usmuvusxacvmbbcnmisvsm v a.uyckx vsatvgcxmupo;vkyuvusxv a.uyckmfixvem.
cmusxcvusmuvndvznovusmfvndvmpmctqv.uapp,vesmuxrxcvusxv.agsuvicxmux 
ncvcxrarx vafvusxvtaf vndvCaismc vKmtx,vusxvdmfmuai,vsa.vtnrxtxfu.
xpaiaux vusxvdmiuvusmuvsxvem.vxausxcvfnuv x.acny.vndvusxvatbxf afg
txxuafg,vncvusmuvsxvinf.a xcx vusmuvsa.vbcx.xfixvafvmfnusxcvhymcuxc
enyp vkxvtncxvunvsa.vm rmfumgxqvSxvsm v.xxfvusxvgxfupxtmfvafvusxvkpmiw
ipnmwvkxdncx,vkyuvfnuvunvusxvwfnepx gxvndvusxvpmuuxc,v.nvauvem.vfnu
usxv cxm vndvmfvxfinyfuxcvusmuvtm xvKmtxvuycfvmf vsm.uxfvunemc vusx
.a x- nncvndvusxv atpovpagsux vumb-cnntqvAuvem.vusxv.xinf v.uxbvesais
sxvsm vumwxfvafvesmuvsxvinf.a xcx vmvsnpovimy.x;vndvtn.uvxrapvxddxiu
auvtagsuvkxvunvusxvtmfvmbbcnmisafgqvM.vusxvdnctxcvbm..x vusxvkagvismac
afvesaisvusxvdmuvsn.ux..vndvusxv npbsafv.muvwfauuafgvsxvtyuuxcx vfnu
unnv.ndupovunvkxvwxbuvdcntvxmc.vmpcxm ovmcny.x vmuvusxvfnuxvndvsa.
 xbmcuycx:

“Tovismfixvunv.xcrxvusxvisycisva.vcabxq”

Sxvbm..x vafunvusxv.a xvmppxovpxm afgvunvusxvsagsvcnm vesxfvusxvuenvtxf
xfuxcx vusxvcnntqvUsxvpxm xcv.bnwxveausnyuvgarafgvusxventmfvismfixvdnc
enc .vndvgcxxuafg:

“Gnn vsn.ux..,vmvsm.uov.fmiwva.vesmuvexvemfuq”

“Ndvesmuv.smppvauvkx?”v.sxvm.wx q

“.miw,visxx.x,vkcxm vmf vuenvbaxix.vndvtxmuvm.vkagvm.vonycvsmf qv cnb
onyc.xpdvusxcx,vUmkkmc ?”

Usxv.bxmwxcvsm vun..x vsa.vipnmwvnrxcvusxvkmiwvndvmvismacvm.vsxv.bnwx
mf vm.vsm.uapovdappx vmfnusxcqvAfvatbmuaxfixvsxv cyttx vmvumuunnveaus
nfxvndvsa.vdxxuvnfvusxv.tnnusvnmwxfvdpnnc;vmf ,vmbbmcxfupoveausnyu
fnuafgvusxvdcx.sfx..vndvusxvkmcxvempp.vmf vusxvisatfxovafvesaisvfnvdacx
sm vxrxcvkycfx ,vsa.vxox.vcnmtx vmcnyf vusxvcnntq

“Zy.uvkyapu,”vcxtmcwx vUmkkmc q

“Ox.,”vcxuycfx vusxvsn.ux..,v.xuuafgvusxv a.sx.vimppx vdncvkxdncx
usxvuenv.ucmfgxc.vmf v.tapafgvm.vusnygsv.sxvdxpuvdpmuuxcx vnrxcvusx
wfnepx gxvusmuvsxcvsny.xvem.vusxv.ykzxiuvndvnk.xcrmuanfvmf vinttxfuq

“Esxcxvexfuvusxvnp vkyap afg?”vm.wx vUmkkmc q

Usxvsn.ux..vuycfx vsxcvsmf veausvusytkvbnafuafgvybemc .vmf v.ma ,v“Af
.tnwxq”

“Ox.,”v.ma vTmcpnex,vesn.xv.imcpxuv nykpxuvmf v.aprxc-inc x vkxpuvsm 
memwxfx vusxvsn.ux..’vm tacmuanfvmf vmptn.uvsy.sx vsxcvafunvcx.bxiudyp
mex,v“Av.mevau.vkpmlxvdcntvm.vdmcv.nyusvm.vusxv.umf mc vafvIsxmbqvUsx
np vumrxcfvem.vueaixvm.vpmcgxvm.vusa.,vmf vkxafgvzy.uvnyu.a xvusxvempp
em.vgcxmupovdcxhyxfux vkovucmrxpxc.vmbbcnmisafgvPnf nfvpmuxvmuvfagsuq”

“ nvtmfov.unbvsxcxvfne?”vafhyacx vUmkkmc q

“Fnuvtmfovmuvusa.v.xm.nf,”vmf.excx vusxvsn.ux..q

“Usxvpm.uvnfxvkxdncxvony,vwaf v.ac,”v.sxvinfuafyx ,vfnevuycfafgvsxc
muuxfuanfvunvTmcpnexvmf vkneafgv.nvusmuvsxcvxox.vimygsuvnfpovusx
.bmcwpxvndvsa.vcmbaxc’.vsapu,v“pxduvzy.uvm.vonyvxfuxcx qvSxvmiux 
.ucmfgxpovm.vsxvimygsuv.agsuvndvonyq”

“.n,vesnvem.vsx?”

“Sxvgmrxvtxvfnvfmtx,vkyuvm.vsxvexfuvnyuvAvsxmc vsatv.mo:v‘Tovismfixvun
.xcrxvusxvisycisva.vcabxq’”

“Snevem.vsxv cx..x ?”vm.wx vTmcpnex,v.y  xfpov.xuuafgv nefvsa.
smpd-cma.x vtyg,vmf vdajafgvsa.vxox.vybnfvusxvsn.ux..q

“PawxvmvBycaumf,”v.sxvmf.excx q

“Mf vesmuvky.afx..vsmrxvsnfx.uvBycaumf.vsmfgafgvmcnyf vusxvkmc.vnd
nc afmcax.vmf vumrxcf.?”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,vesapxvUmkkmc v.fxxcx 
my akpo,vmf vm.wx :

“Mf vndvesmuvmbbxmcmfixvem.vusa.vtmfvesnvem.vpnyfgafgvsxcxvdncvusx
.xcraixvndvGn ?”

“Sa.vpnfgvcx vkxmc vem.vmppvAvfnux ,”v.sxvcxbpax q

“Avwfnevsatvfnu,”v.ma vTmcpnex,v.smwafgvsa.vsxm ,vmf vusxfvsxvm.wx :

“ nvonyvwfnevsa.vfmtx?”

“Txusafw.vusmuvmvtmfvesnvem.veausvsatvxmcpaxcvimppx vsatvKmtxvmuvuatx.,
mf vmgmafvCaismc q”

“Caismc vKmtx!”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,vpaduafgvsa.vxoxkcne.vmf vgmlafg
dajx povmuvusxventmfqv“Mf vsxv.ma vusmuvsa.vismfixvunv.xcrxvusxvisycis
em.vcabx?”

“Ucyx,”vfn  x vusxvsn.ux..,veausvsxcvda.u.vmgmaf.uvsxcvema.uvmf 
infuafyafgvunvpnnwvmuvsxcvafuxcpniyuncvm.vusnygsvafvxjbxiumuanfvusmuvsx
enyp vxjbpmafvesmuvafuxcx.uvsxvsm vafvusxvtmfvesnvsm v xbmcux q

“ cmevy.vuenvtncxviyb.,vTa.ucx..vKyfkmo,”vsxv.ma ,vfnuaiafgvusx
afhya.auarxvxjbcx..anfvnfvusxventmf’.vdmixvmf v x.acny.vunvgxuvsxcvnyu
ndvxmc.snuq

M.vusxventmfvexfuvunemc .vusxvkmc,vsxvesa.bxcx vunvUmkkmc ,v“Gnn 
dxppne,vdncvusxvuycfvusnyvsm.uv nfxvtxvafvkcafgafgvfxe.vndvusxvpm o
muv xbudnc vAvenyp vwfagsuvusxxvsm vAvusxvbnexc,vncvxfcaisvusxxvsm 
Avgnp ,vkyuvAvsmrxvfxausxcvusxvnfxvfncvusxvnusxc,vxjixbuvmvkcmixvnd
mfgxp.vndvesaisvnfxva.vusafxqvSxcxvbyuvauvafvusovbniwxuvmf vesxf
niim.anfvnddxc.v cafwvunvusxvsxmpusvndvusovdcaxf vmf vunvusxvinfdy.anf
ndvmppv.yisvdxppne.vm.vzy.uvpxduvsxcxqvKyuvfnevAvenyp vm.wvmfnusxc
.xcraixvndvusxxq”

“.bxmw,vAvmtvcxm o,”v.ma vUmkkmc ,vbaiwafgvybvusxvuxf-.sappafgvbaxix,
mf vsnp afgvauvm.vusnygsvsxvenyp vsmrxvauvgcnevafunvsa.vbmptq

“Usxvtmfvesnvpxduvsxcx,”vinfuafyx vusxvnusxc,v“a.vCaismc vKmtx,vesnvsm.
.encfvunv.xiycxvtovmccx.uq”

“Mf vdncvesmu?”vxjipmatx vUmkkmc qv“Sm.uvusnyvinttauux vmvicatx?”

“Fmo,vpa.uxfqvSxva.vmvesafafg,vimfuafgvsobnicaux,vesnvsm.vdapx vmf
miiy.muanfvmgmaf.uvtxvdncvkpm.bsxtoqvSxvsmusvfnvimy.xvndvgcaxrmfix,vmf 
sa.vismcgx.,vadvpawxvesmuvAvsmrxvsxmc ,vmcxvdmp.xqvEnc vndvusa.vem.
kcnygsuvtxvkyuvox.uxc mo,vmf vdcaxf povemcfafgvgarxfvusmuvm.v.nnfvm.vto
esxcxmknyu.vexcxvwfnef,vtovmccx.uvenyp vdnppneqvAv.ma vm.vexvznycfxox 
micn..vusxvdaxp .,vmv.sncuvuatxv.afix,vusmuvAvsyfgvkxsaf vusxvicne 
unvmrna vtovicx aunc.,vmf vusmuvem.vbmcupovucyx;vkyuvkx.a x.,vAvem.
mbbcxsxf.arxvndvxfinyfuxcafgvmvinf.umkpxveausvusxvecauva..yx vybnfvusx
miiy.muanfqvUsa.vKmtxvsmusvkxxfvemuisafgvdncvtxvmf va.vfnevgnafgvdnc
usxvnddaixc,vadvAvta.umwxvfnuq”

“Mf vesmuvimfvAv nvdncvusxx?”vm.wx vUmkkmc ,vxjiaux poqv“Usxv.enc 
bnafuva.vmppvunnvgnn vdncvsatqvSneva.vauvusmuvKmccnexvem.vkycfu,vmf 
.yisvm.vsxvparx?”

“Sxva.vxausxcvimccax vmemovkovcxpagany.vdxcrncvncva.vmiuafgvmuvusx
af.umfixvndv.ntxvecauxcvesntvAvsmrxvgcaxrny.povnddxf x ,vkyuvauvtmuuxc.
fnuvesmuvgarx.vusxv.bycvunvsa.vmiuanf.,”[18]vinfuafyx vTmcpnex;v“A
enyp vfnuvafiauxvusxxvunv nvsatvranpxfixqvM.v.nnfvm.vAvcxmisvusxvInyfuo
ndv.yccxo,vusxvecauva..yx vkovusxvzy.uaixveappvkxvafnbxcmuarx;vkyu
usxovtmov.umovtxvkxdncxvAvicn..vPnf nfvKca gxqvFnusafgvty.uvbcxrxfuvto
cxmisafgvusxvGnp xfvSaf ,vafv xbudnc ,vun-fagsuq”

“Mf vesovfnuvtnyfuvafvsm.uxvmf vca xvnfvfnev nefvKa.snb.gmuxv.ucxxuvun
usxvKca gx?”

“Usxvinf.umkpxvtmovkxvipn.xvmuvsmf ,vmf vusxvbmacvxrxfvfnevmemauafg
tov xbmcuycxqvUsxf,vmgmaf,vAvty.uv.unbvmuvtovhymcuxc.vafvInemc vPmfx
kxdncxvAvpxmrxvusxviauoq”

“Expp,vexpp,”vxjipmatx vUmkkmc ,v“garxvtxvusxvenc vndvmiuanfqvAvmt
cxm oq”

“Tnyfuvsnc.xvmuvnfix,vmf vbcx..vmduxcvsatqv a vonyvsxmcvsxcv x.icabuanf
ndvsat?vMvcx -kxmc x vtmfveausvkcnm -kcattx vsmuvmf vpnfgvgcmovinmuqvAd
sxvxfinyfuxc.vmfvnddaixcvmf vuycf.,vsm.uxvusxxvsxcxvkxdncxvusxtveaus
usxvemcfafgqvAdvsxvgnx.vunvsa.vznycfxo’.vxf ,vonyveappvdaf vauvmu
usxvnddaixvndvusxvzy.uaixvmuvusxvincfxcvndvusxvNp vZxecovmf vBnypuco
.ucxxuqvAuvem.vusxcxvusmuvusxvismcgxvmgmaf.uvtxvem.v.encfvunqvCa xv nef
Ka.snb.gmuxv.ucxxuvunvUscxm fxx pxvmf vusxfvafunvBnypucoqvOnyveapp
wfnevusxvzy.uaix’.vnddaixvkovusxvcx vicnefvafvusxv.unfxvemppvmknrxvusx
 nncemoqvEmuisvusxvmiuanf.vndvusxvtmfqvAdvmvinf.umkpxv.umcu.vdcntvusx
nddaixvybnfvKmtx’.vmccarmp,v.xxvunvauvusmuv.yisvnddaixcva.vafuxccybux 
kovsnnwvncvicnnw,vyfuapvusnyvsm.uvcxm.nfvunvkxpaxrxvusmuvPnf nfvKca gx
pax.vkxuexxfvy.q”

Umkkmc vsm vca.xfvkxdncxvusxvpm.uvenc vem.v.bnwxf,vmf v.moafg,v“Onyvimf
ucy.uvtxvunvwxxbvonycvemovipxmc,”vsxv a.mbbxmcx q

UsxvtmfvKmtxvbmy.x vfnuvmvtntxfuvnfvcxmisafgvusxvcnm ,vkyuvsm.uapo
icn..x vusxvkca gxvnrxcvusxvtnmu,vbm..x vuscnygsvusxvea xvgmuxvmf 
.ucn xvnfvunemc vusxv.nyusqvMpusnygsvsxvempwx veausvmpmicauo,vm
gmppnbafgvca xcvintafgvafvsa.vemwxvsm vnrxcumwxfvsatvkxdncxvsxvxfuxcx 
usxv.ucxxuvfnevwfnefvm.vUscxm fxx pxqvIcne .vndvbxnbpxvexcxvtnrafgvaf
mppv acxiuanf.,vkyuvusxvkcnm -kcattx vsmuvndvusxvtmfvnfvdnnuvmf vsa.
pnfgvinmuvinyp vkxvxm.apov a.uafgya.sx ,vmf vusxvca xc,v.pmiwxfafgvsa.
snc.x’.vbmix,vcn xvnfpovdm.uvxfnygsvunvwxxbvusa.vdagycxvafvraxeq

Infucmcovunvusxvxjbxiumuanfvndvusxvca xc,vKmtx,vaf.uxm vndvgnafgvafun
mf vuscnygsvBnypucov.ucxxu,vuycfx vfncusxcpovmf vbm..x vafunvPnuskyco,
kovusxvcx.a xfix.vndvcaisvtxcismfu.,vkovusxvPnuskycovxfucmfixvndvusx
Eaf tappvumrxcf,vesaisvem.vnfixvmvZxea.sv.ofmgngyx,vkovusxvpne-kyapu
.unfxv.snb.vndvinbbxc.taus.vmf vdnyf xc.vndvimf px.uaiw.,vpmtb.vmf 
 a.sx.,vmf vmcnyf vusxvincfxcvndvusxvNp vZxecoqvSxcxvkxdncxvmfvmcisx 
xfucmfixvndvusxvpnfgv.unfxvkyap afg,vwfnefvm.vusxvNp vncvBcafix’.
Emc cnkx,vsxvxfinyfuxcx vmvkcnm -.snyp xcx vtmfvafvpxmusxcv nykpxuvmf 
zxcwaf,vmf ,vm.vusxvuenvsmpux vdncvmvtntxfu,vUmkkmc v a.tnyfux vmf 
uax vsa.vsnc.xvmuvusxvincfxcvndvusxvbmca.svisycisvndv.uqvNpmrxq

Umkkmc vinyp vfnuvnrxcsxmcvusxvinfrxc.muanfvkxuexxfvusxvuenvtxf;vkyu
m.vusxovtnrx ,vsxvdnppnex vunvmvkyap afgveausvhymafuvgmkpx.vbcnzxiuafg
nrxcvusxvkcnm veaf ne.vndvuenvybbxcv.uncax.vmf vmvea xv.unfxvxfucmfix,
mknrxvesaisvem.vmvgcxmuvicnefvtm xvndvacnf,v.xuvafvusxvgcatovempp,
mf vbmafux vcx qvAuvem.vusxvsny.xvafvesaisvUsntm.vàvKxiwxuvdac.uv.me
usxvpagsuvndv moqvKmtxvmf vsa.vintbmfanfvxfuxcx vusa.vkyap afg,vmf 
Umkkmc ,vpxmfafgvmgmaf.uvmvusaiwveaf nevdcmtxvfxmcvusxv nnc,vmf vnfvm
pxrxpveausvsa.vkcxm.u,vpnnwx vuscnygsvnfxvndvusxv.tmppv.hymcx.vndvgpm..q

.xrxcmpvimf px.vsm vmpcxm ovkxxfvpagsux vafvusxvcnnt,vdncvusxvsags
empp.vndvusxv.ucyiuycx.vdmiafgvnfvusxv.ucxxu,vma x vkovusxvdng,vtm x
usxvafuxcancvm.vnk.iycxvm.vusxvsnp vndvmvrx..xpveausvipn.x vsmuisx.qvSx
.mevmvtmfveausvbxcaeagvipmbbx vnfvsa.vgcmovsxm ,vkxmc vucattx vpawxvmf
mixvndv.bm x.veausv.smcbvxf v nef,vmf vmvpnn.xvumddxumvgnef,vgacuvmu
sa.vgcn..vema.uvkovmvkyddvpxmusxcvkxpuqvSxvdappx vmvismacvpmcgxvxfnygs
dncvuenvtxfvm.v.pxf xcvm.vUmkkmc ,vmf vsm vsa.vxox.vkxxfvpx..vinfdy.x 
kovemwafgv.y  xfpovdcntvmvintdncumkpxvfmb,vncvea xvnbxfvaf.uxm vnd
kpafwafg,vsxvtagsuvsmrxv.xxfvusxviycany.vnyu.a xcq

XrxfvKmtx’.v.xpd-bn..x..anfvem.v a.uyckx vafvusxvbcx.xfixvndvusx
memwxfafgvinf.xcrmuncvndvusxvbxmix,vmf vm.vfna.xpx..vm.vmv cyttxcvaf
cxucxmuvdcntvkmuupx,vsxvknex vtn.uvsytkpoq

“Expp,”vusyf xcx vusxv mlx vzy.uaix,v“esnvfne,vGorx.?vA.vusa.vusovpm.u
imuis?vMf va.vauvkmapvncvusxvzmap?vEsmu----”

“Fnusafgvndvusmuv.ncu,vonycvsnfnc,”vafuxccybux vusxvinf.umkpx,vdncv.yis
sxvem.q

“Fn,”vkxgmfvKmtx,vgmafafgvinfda xfixvafvsat.xpdvdcntvusxvwfnepx gxvusmu
usxvzy.uaixvcxhyacx v.ntxvafdnctmuanfvesaisvsxvinyp vm rmfix,v“Avmt
Caismc vKmtx,vesnv.encxvunvusxvmiiy.muanfvndvkpm.bsxtovmgmaf.u----”

“Uyu,vuyu,vAvwfnevusxx,”vxjipmatx vusxvzy.uaix,viyuuafgvsatv.sncuvmf 
cxmisafgvmicn..vusxvumkpxvdncvmvdnp x vbmbxc,v“sxcx,vGorx.,vusa.va.vusx
emccmfu,”vsxvinfuafyx qv“Auvsmusvpmafvsxcxvunvmemauvafdnctmuanfvndvusx
esxcxmknyu.vndvusxvcngyxqvMf vesxcxva.vsx?”

“Muvusxv npbsafvumrxcf,vafvKa.snb.gmux,veausnyuvusxvempp,”vmf.excx 
Kmtxq

“AvwfnevfnuvusxvbpmixqvA.vauveausafvusxvemc ?”

“’Ua.vfxjuvnyu.a xvusxvgmuxq”

“Usxfvusxvmccx.uvimfvkxvtm xvusxcxvkovusa.vinf.umkpxq”

“Ucyx,vonycvsnfnc,”vtyctycx vusxvpmuuxc,v“auva.vusxvfxevmpx-sny.xvusa.
.a xvndvDa.sxc’.vDnppovesxcxvusxvknepafgvmppxo.vmcxq”

“Gxuvonyvndd,vcm.imp,vmf vkcafgvsatvafq”

“Sxva.vmvonyfgvtmfvmf vexmc.vmvkpmiwvipnmw,v.imcpxuv nykpxu,vmf vimb
eausvesauxvdxmusxcqvSa.vsnc.xva.vgcmovmf vbxcismfixvonyvtmovtxxuvsat
nfvusxvcnm ,”v.ma vKmtxvatbcx..arxpovmf vcxbxmux vusxv x.icabuanf,
esapxvusxvinf.umkpxvwxbuvfn  afgvsa.vsxm vafvunwxfvndvusxvcxixbuanfvmf 
cxuxfuanfvndvusxvenc .q

M.vusxvinf.umkpxvimtxvdcntvusxvzy.uaix’.vnddaixvafunvusxv.ucxxuvsxvcmf
afunvUmkkmc vesnvsm vbycbn.xpovbpmix vsat.xpdvafvsa.vemoqvUsxvpmuuxc
gmrxvyuuxcmfixvunvmvgcnmfvmf vpatbx vm.vGorx.v.umttxcx vmfvmbnpngovdnc
sa.vmbbmcxfuvipyt.afx..q

“Tovpxg,”vesafx vUmkkmc ,v“a.vkm povwfniwx qvOnyvty.uvsxpbvtxvunvusx
eafxvcnntvndvusxvEaf tappvmicn..vusxvemoq”

“Avimfv nvusmuvtyisvdncvony,”vcxuycfx vusxvinf.umkpx,vumwafgvsa.
mct,vmf vmicn..vusxvyfxrxfv.ucxxu,vfnuvoxuvpagsux vkovusxvemuistxf’.
pmfuxcf.,vfncv a.uyckx vkovusxvkxpptmf’.v cne.ovuafwpafg,vusxv.isxtafg
Umkkmc vbcnixx x veausvsa.vbcn.bxiuarxvintcm xvdncvmfvxrxfafg’.
imcny.mpqvTxmfesapxvusxvtmfvpxduvmuvusxv npbsafvumrxcf,v.xuupx vsa.
kapp,vtnyfux vsa.vsnc.xvmf vem.vca afgv nefvKa.snb.gmuxv.ucxxuvunemc 
Pnf nfvKca gxq




USXv CMEFv.ENC q

vvvvvvvv_Usxcxdncxv.sxmus,vonycv.enc ;_
vvvv_Advonyvpnrxvtxvfnvhymccxp.vafvtovsny.xq_

vvvvvvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*

vvvv_Sxcxvty.uvfnv.bxxisx.vbm..,vfnv.enc .vkxv cmefq_

vvvv--_ZxevndvTmpum,vaa,v3q_

vvvv_GxfupxvTxciyuan,vbyuvusovcmbaxcvybq_

vvvvvvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*

vvvv_Kxmuv nefvusxacvexmbnf.q--Gxfupxtxf,vdncv.smtx,
vvvvDnckxmcvusa.vnyucmgx:_

vvvv--_Cntxnvmf vZypaxu,vaaa,v1q_


Usxvbpmgyx,vesaisvusaffx vusxvbnbypmuanfvndvPnf nfvafv1593,vem.vfnu
esnppovinfdafx vunvusxviauovmf vau.v.ykyck.qv.xrxcmpvndvusxvrappmgx.
poafgvm zmixfuvsm vkxxfvyfmkpxvunvkmcvau.vra.aumuanfqvUcmrxpxc.vnf
dnnu,vnfvsnc.x,vncvkovknmuvybnfvusxvUsmtx.,vsm vma x vafv.bcxm afgvusx
gxct.qvMuvusxvrappmgxvndv xbudnc ,v.auymuxvuscxxvmf vmvsmpdvtapx.vdcnt
Pnf nfvKca gx,vim.x.vsm vaficxm.x v.nvusmuvmvhymcmfuafxvsm ,vm.vxmcpo
m.vZyfxvusxvdac.u,vkxxfvx.umkpa.sx vmgmaf.uvmppvknmu.vmbbcnmisafgvusx
iauov.a xqvAuvem.vfnuv.nvxm.ovunv xpmovucmrxpvmpnfgvusxvbykpaivcnm .,
mf vm.voxuvusxvunefvpmovnbxfvdncvmfnusxcvra.aumuanfv.snyp vusxvim.x.
mpcxm oveausafvau.vpatau.vkxv.ybbcx..x q

Uenvemodmcxc.vsm vkxxfv.ucyiwv nefvkxdncxvusxvGnp xfvSaf vusmuv moq
 n .tmf,vusxvpmf pnc vndvusa.v xbudnc vumrxcf,vsm vmppnex vusxtvunvkx
imccax vmcnyf vunvusxv.umkpx.,vmf vpxduvusxcxvunv ax,vesaisvusxov a 
kxdncxvfagsu;vmf vusxf,vkximy.xvndvdxmcvndvafdxiuanf,vsxvsm v a.ismcgx 
sa.vuenv.xcrmfu.vesnvsm vmuuxf x vusxtqvAuvem.vmv yuovusmuvsxvnex vun
usxvucmrxpafgvbykpai,v.nvsxvm..xcux ,vmf vusxcxv.xxtx vexagsuvafvusx
m..xcuanfqvAuva.vunvkxv.ybbn.x vusmuvmfovim.xveausafvusxvumrxcfvempp.
enyp vmp.nvsmrxvraumppovmddxiux vsa.vafuxcx.u.;vdncvsxvwfxevfnuvesxusxc
usxvpxgmpvnkpagmuanfvunvtmcwvmvcx vicn..vnfvusxvnyuxcv nnc,veausvusx
uxjuvyf xcvauvndv“Pnc vsmrxvtxciovybnfvy.”vem.v.ucaiupovinfdafx vun
usxvpatau.vndvPnf nfqvM.vauvem.,vusa.v nykpxv xmus-.ucnwxvsm vimccax 
inf.uxcfmuanfvafunvusxvicne vndvcxdygxx.vesn,vdpxxafgvusa.vdmc,vsm 
intbpmixfupovsmpux vdncvusxvxba xtaivunv axvnyuqvAdvusxov a vfnuv xbmcu
nfvusxvtnccne,vauvenyp vkxvkximy.xvusxovucy.ux vtncxvunvumrxcfvempp.
usmfvunvusxvnbxfvcnm q

Nfvusa.vbmcuaiypmcvfagsu,vkxafgvusxvfagsuvndvusxv movnfvesaisvnyc
fmccmuarxvkxgaf.,vusxvumrxcfv nnc.vexcxvipn.x qvNfpov.unct.vsm 
sxcxundncxvwxbuvusxtvdcntvkxafgvnbxfvyfuapvta fagsuvmuvpxm.uqvUsxcxvem.
fnvcxm.nfvunvkxpaxrxvusmuv xmusvtagsuvfnuvzy.uvm.vxm.apovxfuxcvuscnygs
usxvwxosnpx.vm.vuscnygsvnbxfvbncump.,vmf vuscnuupxvnfxvmuvusxvdacx.a x;
kyuvipn.x vhymcuxc.v.xxtx vunvm..ycxv.mdxuoqv n .tmf,vmuvpxm.u,vdxpuvfn
dxmcvesxfvusy.v.syuveausafvsa.vumb-cnnt;vmf vsa.vinf.umfuvcypxvem.vun
afuxcbcxuvnusxcvbxnbpx’.vdxxpafg.vkovusxv.umuxvndvsa.vnefvesxfvafvpawx
.auymuanf.q

Eausvsa.vdmuvsmf .vcx.uafgvnfvusxvusaiwv.appvndvmveaf ne,vsxv.unn 
pnnwafgvnyuvafunvusxvyfafrauafgvfagsuqvUsxv amtnf -.smbx vbmfx.vnd
rmcaxgmux vinpnc.vexcxvfnuvusxvipxmcx.uvtmuxcampvunvpnnwvuscnygs,vkyu
usxovexcxvucmf.bmcxfuvxfnygsvdncvsatvunv.xxvusmuvusxvpmfuxcfvsmfgafg
dcntvusxvmctvndvusxvsagsv.agfvbn.uvmuvusxvumrxcf’.vdcnfuvem.vpagsux q
Usxvcmo.vndvusa.v.agfmpvpagsuvsm v.yddaiaxfuvbxfxucmuanfvunvcxrxmp
usxvenn xfvdagycxvndvmvgap x v xxc,vndvpadxv.alx,vtnyfux vybnfvusx
.agfvbn.u,vmf vmfovkxpmux vucmrxpxcvybnfvusxvdng-ecmbbx vcnm vinyp vko
usx.xvcmo.vmpnfxvsmrxv.xxfvusxvcx -bmafux vdmim xvndvusxvkyap afg,vau.
kypgafgvybbxcveaf ne.vmf vusxvbx atxfux vxfucmfixq

Usxvumrxcfvsm vkxxfvxcxiux vxmcpovafvusxvcxagfvndvSxfcovusxvXagsus,
.nvusmuvusxv.yf.safxvmf vuxtbx.u.vndvxagsuovoxmc.vsm vdmppxfvybnfvauq
Auvem.vndvuenv.uncax.,vusxv.xinf veausvkmoveaf ne.;vmf vau.vcmtkpafg
dcnfu,vbpm.uxcx vmf vbmafux vcx ,vcn.xvipn.xvunvusxvx gxvndvusx
sagsemoqvMvdxev.ucmggpafgv exppafg.vndv xbudnc vpmovnfvusxvfncusvmf 
ex.uv.a xvndvau,vkyuvusxvunefvbcnbxcvpmov.nvdmcvunvusxv.nyusvmf vxm.u
usmuvusxvumrxcfvau.xpdvtagsuvmptn.uvkxvuxctx vmvemo.a xvaffqvUsxcxvem.
mfnusxcvsny.xvdncvucmrxpxc.,vmuvCx caddx,vkyuvusa.vem.vtyisvtxmfxcvaf
bcxuxf.anf.,vmf vafuxcdxcx vpauupx,vadvmuvmpp,veausvusxvky.afx..vndvusx
Gnp xfvSaf qvUsxvbcxuxf.anf.vndvusxvpmuuxcvexcxvinf.a xcmkpx,vadvdcnt
usxvgpxmt.vndvmcuvmf vusxvniim.anfmpv a.bpmovndvxjucmrmgmfixvafvusx
afuxcancv xincmuanf.,vexcxvunvkxv cmefvmfvnbafanfvafvcxgmc vunvemfu,vnc
xjix..,vndv.sneq

Usxcxvem.v.uyiinvencwvafvusxvixapafgvndvusxvumb-cnnt,vfnuvbpmaf,vkyu
kxmcafgvcma.x vmct.,vesaisvkxuuxcvkxdauux vusxvempp.vndvusxv afafgvcnnt
ndv.ntxvim.upxqvAfvxmisvincfxc,vipn.xvunvusxvixapafg,vexcxvtx mppanf
dagycx.vndv.muoc.,vesapxvdypp-pxfgusvatmgx.vndvusx.xv.oprmfv xta-gn .
 mfix vnfvcma.x vbmfxp.vafvusxvixfuxcvndvxmisv.a xvndvusxvcnnt,vbmafux 
usxcxveausvmbbmcxfuvcxiwpx..vmkmf nftxfuqvNfxv.tmppxcvusmfvusxvnusxc.
em.vnrxcvusxv nnc,vmfnusxcvem.vkxuexxfvuenv.hymcxveaf ne.vmuvusxvfncus,
mfnusxcvcxbmafux v.nvusmuvusxvncagafmpvpnexcvgnmuvpxg.vmf vsnnd.vndvusx
dagycxvexcxv.yctnyfux vkovmvpawxvkn ovmf vsxm vmf vsncf.,v.snfx,vaf
kcnwxfvinpnc.,vdcntvmknrxvusxvkmc,vesapxvusxvpm.uvndvusxvdnyc,vcxixfupo
cxunyisx vkyuvfnuvmpuxcx ,v.unn vnyuvnfvusxvea xvisatfxovmknrxvusx
kpmiwvdacxbpmixq

Usa.v.muocvem.vfnuvusxvnfpov xincmuanfvndvusxvisatfxo-baxix,vdncvmknrx
auvmvgcxmuvkmuvxjuxf x vau.v y.woveafg.,vmf vyf xcvauvsyfgvmvpnfgvkne
.yisvm.vexcxvxrxfvusxfvy.x vmuvusxvbcmiuaixvndvmcisxcovafvDafkyco
Daxp .,vmf vnusxcvinttnf.vafvusxvraiafauovndvPnf nfq

Usxcxvexcxvnusxcvbmafuafg.vafvusxvcnnt.vkx.a x.vusn.xvafvusxvbmfxp.q
Dcntvusxvicmiwx vmbbxmcmfixvndvusxacvimfrm.,vmf v afgovsyx.,vusxovgmrx
xra xfixvndvgcxmuxcvmgxvusmfvusxvicy xcvencwvndvusxvdnctxc;vkyuvndvusx
inppxiuanfvndvusxvbncucmau.vndvuenvwafg.,vnfxvpmf pnc vmf vmfvnjsxm ,
fnuvnfxvenyp vsmrxvkxxfvmuucakyux vunvmfvAumpamfvtm.uxcqvEsaisvexcx
ndvusxvwafg.vmf vesaisvem.vndvusxvnjvinyp vkxv.uappv a.uafgya.sx vybnf
imcxdypvnk.xcrmuanfq

Usxvkmcvcmfgx vnfvnfxv.a x,vmf v.xxtx vndv addxcxfuvgcneusvdcntvusx
cnnt,vdncvusxcxvem.vfnusafgvncfmuxvmknyuvauvxjixbuvusxv ximfuxc.vmf 
knuupx.vnfvusxv.sxpdvkxsaf vauqvAuvmbbxmcx vunvsmrxvkxxfv cmggx vaf
mduxcv.ntxvbcx xix..ncvndv n .tmfvsm vbpmffx vunvm mbuvusxvcnntvun
y.x.vnusxcvusmfvusn.xvndv afafg,vdncvesaisvauvsm vkxxfvncagafmppo
 x.agfx qvSxfix,vumb-cnntvauvem.,veausvau.v.mf x vdpnnc,vcnyf vumkpx.,
yfintdncumkpxvenn xfvismac.,vesxcxafvusxvyfcx.uvndvniiybmfu.vinyp vnfpo
kxv cnefx vafv.miwvncvmpx,v x.bauxvusxvafsmctnfany.vgmcfa.stxfu.vnd
empp.vmf vixapafg.q

Muvusxvtntxfuvusxvpmf pnc vem.v.umcafgvuscnygsvusxveaf ne,vusxv.sncu
smf vnfvusxvinbbxcvdmixvndvusxvnp vipniwvkxsaf vusxvkmcvem.vbnafuafgvun
usxvdagycxvxagsuqv.xrxcmpvimf px.vafvkcnflxvsnp xc.vmuvusxvmfgpx.vnd
usxvisatfxo,vmf vmuvknusvxf .vndvusxvkmc,vexcxvkpmlafg;vmf vmknrxvusx
cnnt’.vixfuxc,vusxvattxf.xvkcm..vismf xpaxcvsyfgveausvxrxcovnfxvndvau.
kagvpmtb.vpagsux qv acxiupovyf xcvauv.unn vmvcnyf vumkpxvkxmcafgvnfvau.
unbv.xrxcmpv.aprxcvtyg.q

MuvusxvumkpxvexcxvuscxxvtxfqvUsxovexcxvmppvonyfgvafvoxmc.,veausnyu
ucmixvndvbm.uvimcx.,vmf vyf a.uyckx veausvmbbcxsxf.anf.vndvusxvdyuycxq
Uenvndvusxvucanvexcxvmuuacx vafvkpmiwv nykpxu.vmf vsn.x,vmf vunvzy gx
kovusxacv cx..vncvdmix.vexcxvpauupxvpawxpovunvmuucmiuvmuuxfuanfvafvmfo
bpmixqvUsxacv mcwvipnmw.vexcxvsyfgvmgmaf.uvusxvemppvmuvusxvkmiwvnd
usxacvismac.,vmf vusxacvsmu.vexcxvnfvusxvdpnncvkx.a xvusxtq

Usxvnusxcvtxtkxcvndvusxvgcnybvem.vndvtncxv a.uafgya.sx vmbbxmcmfixq
Sa.vmgxvem.vmbbmcxfupovusacuovoxmc.qvMpusnygsv.tnnus-.smrxfvmf vnd
Kcaua.svim.uvndvinyfuxfmfixvusxcxvem.v.ntxusafgvmknyuvsatvusmuvkx.bnwx
usxvdncxagfvxjucmiuanfvndvusxvtmfqvAuvem.vfnuvafvsa.v.bxxis,vdncvsa.
Xfgpa.svmiixfuvem.vbxcdxiu;vfxausxcvem.vauvafvsa.v cx..,vdncvusmu,
mpusnygsvcaisvmf vxpmkncmux,vem.vipxmcpovndvusxv.uopxvbxiypamcvunvusx
kxuuxcvipm..vndvPnf nfvcx.a xfu.qvSa.vinmuvndvkyddvinpnc,veausvpnn.x
.pxxrx.,vem.vx gx veausvcyddpx.vmuvinppmcvmf veca.u.,vmf vem.vusxvtn.u
.ucawafgvdxmuycxvndvsa.v cx..qvSxvmbbxmcx vmvgxfupxtmfvndvhympauo,vmf 
m.vusnygsvsxvcxingfalx vsa.v.ybxcancauovnrxcvsa.vintbmfanf.,vsxvwxbu
sa.vsxm vinrxcx veausvmvkcnm -kcattx vdxpuvsmuqvAuvem.vuscnefvkmiwvnf
sa.vsxm v.nvusmuvusxvpnfgvkpmiwvbpytx.vunyisx vsa.v.snyp xcq

Usxvuenvtxfvdac.uv x.icakx vexcxvtxtkxc.vndvusxvXmcpvndv.y..xj’.
intbmfovndvmiunc.;vusxacvintbmfanfvem.vnfxvwfnefvm.vDcmfia.vDcmlxc,
faiwfmtx vusxvInyfuvkovusn.xvesnvsm vsxmc vndvsa.vm..xcux vipmat.vunvmf
x.umuxvnfvusxvinfuafxfu,vncvsm vwfnefvsatvkxdncxvsa.vatbca.nftxfuvaf
usxvUnexc,vdcntvesaisvbpmixvsxvsm va..yx vyf xcvsa.vbcx.xfuvfmtxqvSx
ipmatx vunvkxvmvtxtkxcvndvusxv.imuuxcx vdmtapovndvPmvTmcisx,vndvcnomp
pafxmgx,vkyuv carxfvkovusxvdycovndvusxviarapvemc.vndvDcmfixvunvcxtmaf
mfvxjapxvdcntvusmuvinyfucoq

Sa.vcxiaump.vndvusxvecnfg.v.yddxcx vkovsa.vdmusxc,vmf vusxvnk.umipx.
usmuvatbx x vsa.vnefvcxuycfvunvusxvpmf vndvsa.vfmuarauo,vexcxvinfdy.x 
esxf,vmuvuatx.,vsxvkximtxvinttyfaimuarxvnrxcvsa.viyb.qvAfv.nkxcvtntxfu.
mvrxap,vatbxfxucmkpxvm.v.uxxp,vinfixmpx vdcntvismfixvintbmfanf.vxrxf
usxvxrxfu.vndvusxvox.uxc movndvusxvtmf;vmf vismfixvintbmfanf.vexcxvmpp
usmuvsxvm..niamux veausqvSxvsm vfnvdnppnexc.,vfnvpnimpvsmkaumuanf,vmf 
em.vpnnwx vybnfvm.vmfvm rxfuycxcq

Sa.vinf.umfuv a.mbbxmcmfix.vdcntvnfxvsmyfuvdncvtnfus.,vmf vusxf
cxmbbxmcmfix.,veausnyuvenc vndv xbmcuycx,vfnuaixvndvxjbxiux vcxuycf,
ncv a.ipn.ycxvndvusxvbpmixvmf vbycbn.xvndvsa.vmk.xfix,vfmuycmppovtm x
satvmfvnkzxiuvndv.y.baianfqvNfixvsxvsm vkxxfvuscnefvafunvusxvUnexc,
mf ,vmduxcvpmfgya.safgvdncvuenvoxmc.vyf xcvmvismcgxvusmuvdxppvun
baxix.vesxfvusxvmuuxfuanfvndvusxvkn ovafvmyusncauovem.vuycfx vunvauvsx
em.vpakxcmux ,vkyuvfnuveausnyuvmvemcfafgvdncvsatvunvwxxbvsat.xpdvaf
cxuacxtxfuqvAuvem.vkximy.xvndvusa.vemcfafgvusmuvsxvsm vm nbux vusxvfmtx
ndvDcmlxcq

Nfvusa.vxrxfafgvusxvuenvmiunc.vmf vDcmlxcvsm vkxxfvuscnefvungxusxcvaf
usxvumb-cnntqvNfxvndvusxvdnctxcvmf vDcmlxcvsm vtxuvkxdncx,v.nvusmu,
dcntvusxacvdac.uvimpp.vdncvmpx,vusxcxvem.vxfnygsvndvgnn -dxppne.sab
kxuexxfvusxtvunvwxxbvusxviybviacipafgqvKx.a x.vusxvtyg.vybnfvusxvumkpx,
em.vmfnusxcvmcuaipxvusmuv.xxtx v.ucmfgxpovnyuvndvbpmixqvAuvem.vusx
fmwx v.enc vndvusxv.n-imppx vInyfu,veausvau.vkm.wxuvsapuvipn.xvafvdcnfu
ndvusxvnefxcqvAuvpmovusxcxvgpa.uxfafgvyf xcvusxvpagsuvndvusxvpmtb.
pawxvmvtxfmixvunvgnn visxxcvmf vsytncqvUsxvsmf pxvndvusxv.enc vmf 
usxvsmf pxvndvusxvtygvexcxvinf.umfupovxfinyfuxcafgvxmisvnusxc,vm.vusx
nefxc,vmuvafuxcrmp.,vcxmisx vdnc,vhymddx vdcnt,vmf vcx.xuvusxvpmuuxcq

Au.vbcx.xfixvsm vcma.x vfnvinttxfu,vyfuapvusxvcx -sxm x vumb.uxc,vaf
bpmiafgvmvcx-dappx vtygvybnfvusxvumkpx,v.bapuv.ntxvndvusxvinfuxfu.
ybnfvusxvgpa.uxfafgv.uxxpqvAfv nafgvusa.vsxvsm vcxmisx vmicn..
Dcmlxc’.vwfxx.vmf vkxdncxvsxvinyp veaus cmevsa.vmctvmf vdyppovcxinrxc
sa.vkmpmfix,vmv.ucnfgvsmf vimygsuvsatvkovusxv.snyp xcvmf vdpyfgvsat
kmiwemc .vybnfvusxvdpnncq

 n .tmfvuycfx vdcntvusxveaf ne,vm.vsxvsxmc vusxvdmpp,vmf vusxvipmuuxc
ndvmfvxtbuovtygqvSxviacipx vmcnyf vusxv.bcmepafgvtmfvmf vmbbcnmisx vusx
gcnyb,vesaisvem.vpmygsafgvkna.uxcny.povmuvusxvumb.uxc’.vta.smbqvTafx
sn.u,vinfixmpafgvsa.vmfgxcveausvusxvbnpaiovndvnfxvesnvwfxevusmuvusx
 xfu.vafvsa.v.aprxcemcxvinyp vnfpovkxvndd.xuvkovusxvdyf vesaisvty.u
dnppnevdcntvusxvimcny.mp,v.atbpov.ma :

“Snevfne,vdxppne?vIyc.x.vybnfvusovipyt.afx..,”vunvsa.vtmf,vmf vusxf
pnnwx vafhyacafgpovmuvusxvInyfuq

“Sx’.vexuvusxvkpm xvesaisvnfpovkpnn v.snyp v.umaf,”v.ma vau.vnefxc,
 cmeafgvauvmicn..vsa.vwfxxqvMgmafvusxovpmygsx q

“Mf vesova.vauv cmefvxjixbuvafv xdxf.xvndvsnfnc,vncvusxvHyxxf?”vm.wx 
 n .tmfq

Dcmlxcv.inepx ,vkyuvusxvsn.uveausvsa.vesauxvkxmc ,vcx visxxw.vmf 
bpxm.mfuvxox.vem.vfnvtxmfvmbbxmcafgvbxc.nf,vmf vusxvdnctxcvdxpuvimppx 
ybnfvunv.mo:

“Esxfv xmusv.umpw.v.nvipn.xvunvnfxvm.vsxvsm.vdncvusxvbm.uvuenvexxw.vaf
Pnf nfv.ucxxu.,vauva.vexppvunvsmrxvusovexmbnfv cmefvmuvmppvuatx.q”

“Mvcxm ovcxbpo,”vcxuycfx v n .tmf,v“kyuvndvfnvgcxmuvexagsuq”

“Expp,”v.ma vusxvnusxc,v“adv.ucmagsuvmf.excvonyvty.uvsmrx,vAvsm v cmef
auvunvxjsakauvauqvAuva.v.xp ntvusmuvmvkpm xvndvusa.vismcmiuxcvdmpp.
afunvusxvsmf .vndvmfovnfxv.mrxvmvbxxcvndvusxvcxmptqvPnnwvmuvauvipn.xpo,
tafxvsn.u,”vsxvxjipmatx ,vsnp afgvauvmpnduvafvusxv acxiuanfvndv n .tmf,
mf veaxp afgvauveausvusxvxm.xvmf vgcmixvndvnfxvmiiy.untx vunvau.vy.xq

“ n.uv.xxvau.vrmcaxgmux vemuxcx vmbbxmcmfix?”vsxvinfuafyx ,v“pawxvusn.x
ndv mtm.iy.vtmwxqv.yisvauvtagsuvkxv xxtx vunvkx,vkyuvsxcxvauvkxmc.vusx
.umtbvndvMf cxmv xvDxccmcmqvSnevtmfovuen-x gx vkpm x.vndvUnpx nv a .u
usnyvxrxcv.xxv cmef?”

“Dxe,vgnn vInyfu,vkyuvusxvpx..vusxvkxuuxcqvUsa.va.vmvhyaxuvsny.xqvAvmat
dncvusxvxfuxcumaftxfuvndvusn.x,vesnt,vesap.uvusxovsxcxvumpwvemcvmf 
 yxp.,vgnvxp.xesxcxvunvxfgmgxvafvusxtq”

.xrxcmpvpny vwfniw.vmuvusxvnyuxcv nncvfnevcx.nyf x vuscnygsvusxvcnntq
Usxvumb.uxc,vesnvtxmfesapxvsm vcma.x vsat.xpdvdcntvusxvdpnnc,v.snuvkmiw
mvknpuvmf v cxevafvnfxveafgvndvusxvuenvtm..ov nnc.qvUsxv mcwfx..vndvusx
fagsuvinyp vfnuvinfixmpvusxvty -.xuv.unfx.vndvusxvbmrxtxfu,vdncvusx
pagsu.vndvusxvcnntv.ucxmtx vybnfvusxtqvMvtmfv.unn vusxcx,veausvipnmw
ecmbbx vipn.xvunvsa.vdnctvmf vm.vsagsvm.vsa.vxox.,vmbbmcxfupovunvwxxb
dcntvsa.vdmixvusxvaficxm.afgvdngvndvusxvfagsuqvSxvsxp vusxvkca pxvndvm
snc.xvafvnfxvsmf vmf vsmf afgvusa.vunvusxv.xcrafgvtmf,vsxv.ucn xvafun
usxvcnntqvM.vsxv.eyfgvkmiwvsa.vipnmw,vusxvdmixvem.v a.ipn.x vndvusxvtmf
esnvsm vca  xfveausvUmkkmc vdcntvDafkycovDaxp .q

Nfxvndvusxvuenvmiunc.vcxingfalx vsatvmuvnfixvmf vicax vnyu:

“Expintx,vWauqvUsovumfwmc va.vcxm oq”

Sxvuycfx vdcntvfnuaiafgvusmuvusxvuatxvkovusxvipniwvem.vnfpovmvdxe
tafyux.vbm.uvxagsu,vmf veausvmvcxtmcwvunv n .tmfvunv.xxvunvauvusmuvsa.
snc.xvem.vbcnbxcpovdx vmf vkx  x ,vexfuvnrxcvunvusxvbmcuovndvuscxxvtxfq

“Mpcxm ovpn gx vfxmcv.mox.vInycu?”vSxv.bnwxvafuxccngmuarxpoq

“Ox.,”vcxznafx vnfxvndvusxvnusxc.qv“OnyvwfnevusxvInyfu?”

“Tn.uvm..ycx po,”vsxvmf.excx q

Dcmlxcvfn  x vsa.vsxm veausvusxvcxtmcw:v“Avcxtxtkxcvusxvnfxvniim.anfq”

“AfvusxvuacxafgvcnntvmuvusxvIycumaf,vpm.uveafuxc,vesxfvkxuexxfvusxvmiu.
afvUmtkycpmafx,vonyv.snex vtxvusxvinyfuxcvbmcm x.vafvhymcuxvmf vuaxcixq
Avsmrxv.afixvbyuvusxvpx..nfvunvgnn vy.x,vmf vsmrxvkcnygsuvusxvsny.x
 nefvkovau.vxjsakauanfqv a .uvusnyvxrxcv.xxvsatvdxfix,vKmcunp?”vsx
afhyacx vndvusxvmiuncvesnvem.v.xmux vnbbn.auxvsat.xpdq

“FnuvA,”vmf.excx vKmcunpq

“Auvenyp v nvonycvsxmcuvgnn vyfpx..vusxvxfinyfuxcvexcxvafvcxmpvxmcfx.u
mf vuso.xpdvmfvmiuncvafvauqvMf vusxfvusovpadxvenyp vfnuvkxvencusvm
uybbxfixqvSnevcxm ovpax.vusovkpm xvdncvmfvniim.anfvndvusmuvwaf ,”vsx
m  x ,vfnuaiafgvusxv.enc v.uappvpma vmicn..vusxvumkpxq

“Onycvbcma.xva.vsags,”v.ma vDcmlxcqv“M.vdncvusxv.enc ,vusxvsapu,vesxf
afvau.vbpmix,vafuxcdxcx.veausvtovxpknevesxfvAv cafwq”

“Uscxxvcxm.nf.vfnevdncvau.v cmeafg,”vtyctycx vusxvpmf pnc vunvsat.xpd,
m.,vfxmcvmuvsmf ,vsxvsm vkxxfvhyaxupovpa.uxfafgvunvusxvinfrxc.muanfq
“Usxvdnycusvcxm.nfveappvyf nykux povkxvusxvucyxvnfxq”

“Mf vesxfv a vonyvpxmrxvusxviauo?”vm.wx vKmcunpq

“Fxmcxcv.xrxfvusmfv.ajvkovusxvipniwvafvusxvunexcvmuvusxv.nyusemcwvxf 
ndvusxvPnf nfvKca gx,”vmf.excx vusxvpmuxvintxcq

“ a vonyvbm..vusxvtncca.- mfixc.?”

“EappvWxtbvmf vsa.vintbmfo?”

“Ox.,vusxovpxduvsxcxvpmuxvafvusxv moqvSa.vumkncxcvmf vuenvbcxuuo
 mfixc.vexcxveausvsat,”v.ma vKmcunpq

“Usxovexcxvbxcdnctafgvnfvusxvkca gxvm.vAvcn xvmicn..vauqvAvcxafx vafvto
snc.xvfxmcvusxvixfuxcvndvusxvkca gxvkxdncxvusxvismbxpvndv.uqvUsntm.q
Usxcxvusxov mfix vafvusxvfmccnevemo,veausvfxmcpovxrxcovafsmkaumfuvnd
usxvkca gxvxausxcv.umf afgvicne x vafvmviacipxvmcnyf vusxtvncvpnnwafg
nyuvndvusxveaf ne.vndvusxacv mcw.ntxv.snb.qvAuv xpmox vtxvpnfgq”

“Kyuvfnuvmgmaf.uvusoveapp,vAvmtv.ycx,”vcxtmcwx vDcmlxc,vpnnwafg
.xmcisafgpovmuvusxv.bxmwxc,vnrxcvsa.vcma.x viybq

“Mf vesov.n?”

“Excxvusxvdmacv mfixc.vfnvmuucmiuanf?vAdvusxovexcxvfnu,vusxcxvty.uvsmrx
kxxfv.ntxusafgvbyppafgvusxxv.ucnfgpovafvusa.v acxiuanfqvBxcsmb.vauva.vm
dmacxcvpm oq”

Sxv.xxtx vunv.bxmwvm ra.x poq

“Ucyx,”visyiwpx vusxvpmf pnc vunvsat.xpd,v“mf vAvenf xcv nx.vsxvwfne
usmuv.sxvesnvem.vnfixvusxv.exxuvtma vndvImfuxckycovpaxusvsxcx?”

“Adv.n,”vcxuycfx vTmcpnexveausv.ntxvaccaumuanfvimy.x vkovusxvunfx.vnd
Dcmlxc,v“auva.vfnuvmvtmuuxcvxausxcvdncvtxfuanfvncv a.iy..anfq”

“Exveappv cafwvunvsxc,”vafuxccybux vKmcunp,v“kxv.sxvdmacvncvbpmaf,vtma 
ncv.bny.x,vonyfgvncvnp qvSxcxva.vunvusovpnm .unfx,vWauq”

“Fnuveausnyuvtxfuanfvndvsxcvfmtx,”v.ma vDcmlxc,vinp poq

“Onyveappv cafwvunvsxcvyfwfnefvncvfnuvmuvmpp,”vcx.bnf x vTmcpnex,veaus
inf.a xcmkpxvmfatmuanfq

“Usxfvfnuvmuvmpp,”vcxuycfx vDcmlxcq

Usxvuenvtxfv.umcx vmuvxmisvnusxcvm.vusnygsvusxvkcxmusvndvmvintafg
hymccxpvsm vunyisx vusxacvdmix.q

“Intx,”vxjipmatx vusxvmiunc,vesnvusy.vdmcvsm vcxtmafx v.apxfuqv“Usa.
a.vmvcmevgy.uvusmuvkpnexusqvAdvusxvgxfupxtmfvwfnexusvmvpm o,vAvemccmfu
.sxva.v.exxuvxfnygsvdncvmppvgpm..x.vunvkxvxtbuax vafvsxcvbcma.xvmf 
snfncqvKyuvsxvsm.vfnuv.ma vusmuvsxvwfnexusvmfoqvMf ,vnfvusxvnusxcvsmf ,
advusxvnusxcvgxfupxtmfvsmusv.ntxvnfxvafvtaf ,vesntvsxvenyp vfnuvbpx gx
afvcxiwpx..v.ncu,va.vusmuvfnuvgnn vcxm.nfvunvpxuvsa.vpab.vgnv co?vIntx,
 n .tmf,vsm.uvusnyvmvknjvmf v aix?”

“Uyg,vusxvknj,”v.ma vusxvpmf pnc vunvusxvumb.uxcq

“A.vauvunvkxvmuvsmlmc ?”vm.wx vKmcunpq

“Esmuvonyveapp,”vmf.excx vusxvnusxcq

“.xuv nefvusovtyg,”vsxvusyf xcx vunvTmcpnex,vesnv.xxtx vecmbbx vaf
nusxcvusnygsu.q

“Mf vInyfu,”v.ma vusxvpmf pnc ,v“Aveappv.xuvusov.enc vsxcxvmgmaf.uvusx
emppq”

“Expp,vxfnygs,”v.tnnuspovcxtmcwx vusxvnfxvm  cx..x ,vesn,vm rxfuycxcvm.
sxvem.,vmuvtxfuanfvndvusxv aixvpxuvmppvsa.vusnygsu.vndvhymccxpv.pabq

“Onyvuscxxvbpmo,”v.ma vTmcpnex,v“Aveappvpnnwvnfq”

“M.vy.ymp----”vkxgmfvKmcunpq

“Eausvnfpovusxv cxg.vndvmvnfixvdyppvknuupx,”vtyuuxcx vTmcpnex,
dafa.safgvsa.vdcaxf ’.vcxtmcwq




MvIPM.SvNDv.UXXPq

vvvv_Avwfne,v.ac,vesmuvauva.vunvwappvmvtmf;_
vvvv_Auvencw.vcxtnc.xvndvinf.iaxfixvafvtx;_
vvvv_Avumwxvfnvbpxm.ycxvunvkxvtyc xcny.,_
vvvv_Fncvimcxvdncvkpnn vesxfveafxveappvhyxfisvtovusac.uq_

vvvv--_AAvUmtkycpmafx,varq_

vvvv_Usnygsvafvusxvucm xvndvemcvAvsmrxv.pmafvtxf,_
vvvv_Oxuv nvAvsnp vauvrxcov.uyddvndvinf.iaxfix_
vvvv_Unv nvfnvinfucarx vtyc xcqvAvpmiwvafahyauo_
vvvv_.ntxuatx.vunv nvtxv.xcraixq_

vvvv--_Nusxppn,va,v2q_


Usxvxjiauxtxfuvndvemuisafgvusxvgmtxvndvsmlmc ,vafvesaisvDcmlxcvmf 
usxvuenvmiunc.vsm vkxintxvxfgmgx ,vem.vfnuv.yddaiaxfuvunvmk.nckvusx
usnygsu.vndvusxvtmfvesnvem.v.atbpovmfvnk.xcrxcqvMuvxmisvpyiwovuscne
ndvusxv aix,vsxvpnfgx vunvkxintxvmvbmcuaiabmuncvafvusxvgmtx;vmf vmu
pxfgus,v.tnusxcafgvsa.vxmcpovdxmc.vndvkxafgvpxduvbxffapx..,vsxvbpmix vm
.ytvndvtnfxovybnfvusxvumkpx,vmf vem.v.nnfvca.afgvmf v.afwafgveausvusx
raia..auy x.vndvismfixq

Sa.vnfxvmfgxpvcmba povgcxevafunvmvkcmixvndvgnp vbaxix.,vmf veausvusx
aficxm.xvndvsa.v.yiix..vusxv.umwx.vexcxvcma.x vafvbcnbncuanfqv.uapp
.exxuvdncuyfxvkcxmusx vsxcvsnuvkcxmusvybnfvsa.visxxw.vmf vusxvnusxc
bpmoxc.vtyuuxcx vtncn.xpovmf v.encxv.mrmgxpovmuvxmisvcmuupxvndvusxviyb
mf vcnppvndvusxviykx.q

Usxvky.afx..vndvusxvumb.uxcvsm vfnuvkxxfv.umox vkovcxm.nfvndvusx
xjiauxtxfuvndvusxvbpmo,vkyuvnfvusxvinfucmcovauvpx vsatvkmiwvmf vdncus
dcntvusxvkmc,vunvusxvcnyf vumkpxvyf xcvusxvpauvpmtb.,veausvtnrxtxfu.
esaisvexcxv.imcixpovafuxccybux vkovmfvafuxcrmpvndvcx.uqvMppvndvusa.vem.
hyaxupovnk.xcrx vkov n .tmf,vesn,vsmrafgvpagsux vmvbabxvndvpnfg-pxmd
mf vxf.infix vsat.xpd,veausvmptn.uvipn.x vxox.,vafvmvuapux vismacvfxmc
muvsmf ,vwxbuvcxbxmuafgvunvsat.xpdvusxvpafx.:

vvvv“Fnevpxuvusxtv cafw,vuappvusxovfn vmf veafw,
vvvvvXrxfvm.vgnn vdxppne.v.snyp v n,
vvvvvUsxov.smppvfnuvta..vunvsmrxvusxvkpa..
vvvvvGnn vmpxv nusvkcafgvtxfvunq”

Kmcunpvsm vmuvpxfgusvnddxcx vunvbpx gxvsa.vpnfgvipnmw,vmf vmduxcvm
smggpxvmknyuvusxv.ytvunvkxvcma.x ,vafvesaisvusxvcxbxuauanfvndvusx
 cafwafgvpafx.vem.vafuxccybux ,v n .tmfvsm vm rmfix vusxvnefxcvuxf
.sappafg.vybnfvusxvmcuaipxqvMgmafvusxvbpmovexfuvnf,vmf vusxvinbbxc
ipniwvsm v.ucyiwvusxvsnycvndvfafxqvAu.v.ucnwx.vsm vkxxfvyffnux vxrxf
kovusxvtmfvesnvybnfvsa.vpmuxvmccarmpvsm vtmcwx vusmuvsnycvm.vnfxvnd
znodypv.yttnf.qvUsxcxvexcxvsnuvsxm .,vmuvusmuvuatx,vmuvusxvumkpx,vmf 
fnv.nyf .vxjixbuvusn.xvmca.afgvybnfvau.vybbxcv.ycdmixvmf vipn.xvmcnyf 
au.vx gx.vexcxvfnuaix q

Usxv nncvnbbn.auxvunvusxvnyuxcvxfucmfixvnbxfx vmf vmv.xcrafgvtmf
xfuxcx qvSxvpnnwx v.smcbpovmuvusxvdnycvtxfvmuvusxvumkpx,vmf vusxf,
patbafgvmicn..vusxvdpnnc,vunyisx vusxvtmfvafv.imcpxuv nykpxuvnfvusx
.snyp xcqvUsxvpmuuxcvuycfx vsa.vsxm vmf vusxvtxfampv.ma :

“Mvenc veausvony,v.acq”

Auvcxhyacx vfnvenc .vdncvTmcpnexvunvyf xc.umf vusxvfmuycxvndvusx
bcnbn.x vinttyfaimuanf;vdncvusxvafuxccybuanfvsm vkcnygsuvsatvunvusx
cxmpalmuanfvndvtmuuxc.vnyu.a xvndvusxviacipxvsxvsm vzy.uvkcnwxfqvKyuvaf
nc xcvunvpxmcfvusxvxjmiuvatbncuvndvusxvenc .vuxf xcx vsat,vsxveaus cxe
eausvusxvtmfvunvnfxv.a xq

“Avintxvunvuxppvony,”v.ma vusxv.xcrmfu,vafvmvesa.bxc,v“usmuvonyvmcx
xjbxiux q”

“Fne?”

“Muvnfixq”

“Muvusxv nnc----”

“Eausvusxvimcrx vbmfxp.,”vtyuuxcx vusxv.xcrafgvtmf,vm.vTmcpnexvbpmix vm
.aprxcvbaxixvafvsa.vsmf q

Usxvcmuupxvndvusxv aixv.uappvinfuafyx q

“Umwxvtovbpmixvmuvusxvumkpx,”v.ma vTmcpnex,vmbbcnmisafgvusxvpmf pnc ,
mf vusxfvsxvm  x vunvusxvbpmoxc.,v“Aveappvcxuycfvattx amuxpoq”

Sxvsm vfnvcxm.nfvunvkxpaxrxvusmuvsxvenyp vtmwxvmvbcntbuvcxuycf,vkyuvm.
tn.uvndvusxvtnfxovesaisvsm vkxxfvemgxcx vpmovafvsa.vnefvbniwxu.,vsx
dxpuvauvafiytkxfuvybnfvsatvunvmrna vmfovcxtnf.ucmfixvkovtmwafgvusa.
.umuxtxfuqvAdvsxvsm vfnuaix vusxvismfgafgvinpncvndvusxvInyfu’.vdmix,
mf vusxv xuxctafx vxjbcx..anfvusmuvgmusxcx vybnfvauvmuvusa.vtntxfu,
auvtagsuvsmrxvimy.x vsatvunvsmrxvbmy.x vmuv.ntxvbnafuvmpnfgvusxvpafx
ndvsa.vbcnbn.x vrxfuycxvunvm.ixcumafvusxvcxm.nfvndvusa.vmbbmcxfu
.npaiauy x;vkyuvauvsm vx.imbx vsa.vnk.xcrmuanfq

Mvtntxfuvmduxcvsa.v xbmcuycxvdcntvusxvumb-cnntvsxvem.vsyccax po
m.ixf afgvusxv.umacemovafvusxvGnp xfvSaf qvSa.vsm.ux,vmpusnygsvpawx
usmuvndvnfxvbyc.yx ,vem.vniim.anfx vesnppovkovusxvdncixvndvmuucmiuanfq
Sxvsm vfnvimy.xvunvkxpaxrxvsa.vuatxvpataux ,vfncvusmuvmfovnfxvtagsuvkx
xfnygsvafuxcx.ux vaf,vncv a.uyckx vko,vsa.vbcx.xfixvusxcxvunvmuuxtbuvun
usemcuvsatq

Auvem.vucyxvusmuvUmkkmc vsm v.bnwxfvndv.ntxvnfx,vesnvusmuv movsm 
imy.x vusxvpm ovunviyuv.sncuvsxcvtx..mgxvdncvsat;vkyuv.yisvbxc.nf
tmovsmrxvkxxfvtxcxpovmvdcaxf vesntv.sxv a vfnuv x.acxvunvwfnevndvsxc
infrxc.xveausvusxv.xcrafg-tmfq

Afvsa.vsm.uxvsxvsm vfnuv.unbbx vunvtmwxvmfovafhyacovndv n .tmf
infixcfafgvusxvpm o’.vdcaxf vncvdcaxf .vmuvusxvumrxcfqvAdvsxvsm 
inf.a xcx vdncvmvtntxfu,vsxvenyp vsmrxvcxtxtkxcx vusmuvknusvTmfyxp
Icn..dnc vmf vsa.v mygsuxcvsm vkxxfvexppvwfnefvunvusxvpmf pnc ,vmf 
usxvniim.anfvndvsxcvbcx.xfixvsxcxvinyp vsmrxvkxxfvxm.apovm.ixcumafx q
Sxvsm vusnygsuvndvtmwafgv.yisvafhyacovbcancvunvsa.vxfucmfix,vkyuvusx
uscxxvtxf,vmf vpmuxcvusxvgmtxvndvsmlmc ,vsm v arxcux vsa.vtaf qvKx.a x.
usx.xv arxc.anf.,vusxvtmfoviyb.vndvmpxvesaisvsxvsm v cmafx vexcxvfnu
inf yiarxvunvhyaiwveauvncv.nkxcvusnygsuqvSnexrxc,vsa.vdmapycxvunvpxmcf
tncxvndvsa.v.yccnyf afg.vniiyccx vunvsatvm.vsxvipatkx vusxv.umac.,vkyu
fnvpnrxcvmuvusxvpm.uv.uxbvunvusxvuco.uvxrxcvoxuvuycfx vkmiwvdncvmf
mf.excvesaisvafvmfovim.xvinyp vfnuvsmrxv.excrx vsatvdcntvsa.vinyc.xq

“Av.ybbn.xvAv.smppvcyfvafunvusxvmct.vndvsxcvtncn.xvmf vacm.iakpxv.acx,
kxdncxvAvimuisvmvgpatb.xvndvsxcvdmix,”vsxvusnygsuq

Sxvcxmisx vusxv.xinf v.unco,vbm..x vmpnfgvusxvsmppvmv.sncuv a.umfix
mf vusxfvsmpux qvUsxv nncvusmuv.unn vkxdncxvsatvem.vxtkpmlnfx veausvm
.saxp vpoafgvdpmuvmgmaf.uvuenv.bxmc.qvUsxovexcxvimcrx vnfvusxvixfuxc
bmfxp,vesaisvniiybax vfxmcpovusxvesnpxv.bmixvkxuexxfvusxvbn.u.qvUsxcx
em.vfnvnusxcvbncumpv a.bpmoafgvxpmkncmuxv xincmuanfqvUsxvempp.vmf 
ixapafgvndvusxvbm..mgxvexcxvuatkxcx veausvisx.ufyu,veausnyuvdafa.svmf 
afv.ucawafgvinfucm.uvunvusxv nncqvUsa.vem.vyf nykux povusxvxfucmfixvun
usxvcnntvafunvesais,vm.vunp vkovUmkkmc ,vusxventmfvsm v.nvsyccax po
 a.mbbxmcx qvAuv.unn vmzmc,vm.vusnygsv.bxmwafgvmfvafraumuanfvunvxfuxc
eausnyuvwfniwafgqvEausnyuvsx.aumuanfvsxvby.sx vauvnbxfq

Usxvcnntvcxrxmpx vem.vmuvnfxvxf vndvusxvumrxcfvmf vau.vuenvpmuuaix 
eaf ne.vnrxcpnnwx vmv.a xv.ucxxuqvUsxvempp.vexcxvyfcxpaxrx vxjixbuvdnc
mvcx vmccm.vsmfgafgvmgmaf.uvusxvixfuxcvndvnfx,vmvkpmiwvisatfxo-tnyus
kcxmwafgvusxv xm v.ycdmixvndvmfnusxc,vmf vusxvuenveaf ne.v.xuuafgv xxb
afvusxvemppvdycusx.uvdcntvusxv nncqvUsxvdxevbaxix.vndvdycfauycxvexcx
ndvmfuahyxvtmfydmiuycx,vmf vmvimcbxu--mfvyfy.ympvmcuaipxvdncvsny.x.vmu
usmuvbxcan ,vxjixbuviauovaff.vmf vbcarmuxvtmf.anf.--pmovybnfvusxvdpnncq
Mvumkpxv.unn vfxmcvusxvisatfxo,vmf vnfvauvem.vmvimf xpmkcytqvMppvndvau.
pagsu.vexcxvkycfafgq

Advusxvdmiuvndvusxvxja.uxfixvndvusx.xvgxfxcmpvnyupafx.vndvusxvcnntvmf 
au.vafuatmuxvkxpnfgafg.,vexcxvinfrxox vunvusxvkcmafvndvusxvafucy xc,
sxvem.vyfinf.iany.vndvusxv.mtx,vdncvusxacvbcnzxiuanfvybnfvsa.vcxuafm
em.v x.ucnox vkovusxv.agsuvndvnfxv.npxvnkzxiuqvMuvusxvicxmwvndvusx
safgx.,vmventmf,v.xmux vnfvmvismacvkx.a xvusxvumkpx,vcma.x vsxcvxox.q
Auvem.vusa.vparafgvdagycxvusmuvcy.sx vafunvsa.vra.anfveausvmvranpxfix
bcn yiuarxvndv.pagsuv.otbunt.vndv.ofinbxq

Usxvxox.vesaisvimygsuvmf vcxuycfx vusxvgpmfixvndvsa.vnefvenyp vsmrx
gpncadax vmvdmixvndvxrxfvusxvtxmfx.uvdxmuycx.,v.nvenf xcdyppovkcappamfu
excxvusxo,v.nvuxf xcvafvusxacvxjbcx..anf;vkyuvusxvinyfuxfmfixvusmuvusxo
appytafx vem.vbxcdxiuvafvnyupafx,vmf vfnuv xbxf xfuvybnfvusxvxox.vun
eafvusxvm tacmuanfvndvusxv yppx.uvnk.xcrxcqvUsxviycrxvndvsxcv mcwvmf 
dafxpo-bnafux vxoxkcne.vinyp vsmrxv.yiix..dyppovxpy x vusxvataumuanfvnd
mvbmafuxc,vmf vusxacvinpncvem.vafv.ucawafgvinfucm.uveausvusxvexmpusvnd
gnp xfvsmacvesaisvicnefx vsxcvpnevmf vkcnm vdncxsxm qvAdvusxvisafvmf 
fn.xvgmrxvxra xfixvndv xuxctafmuanfvmf vmkapauovunvinfucnp,vusxov a 
fnuv xucmiuvnfxvanumvdcntvusxvkxmyuovndvusxvesnpxqvKyuvusxvtnyusvem.
m.vtyisvusxvtaccncvndvusxv.nypvm.vexcxvusxvxox.qvUsxvbafwvpab.vkx.bnwx
usxvwxxfx.uv.xf.akapauax.,vmf vusxacv xpaimuxvinfunycvbcnipmatx vxrxf
afvcxbn.xvusmuvusxovexcxvcxm ovuncisx.vunvinfrxovusxvdaxcix.uvkpmlxvnd
bm..anfq

Esapxv.sxvcxtmafx v.xmux ,vauvinyp vfnuvkxv xuxctafx vesxusxcvsxc
dagycxvem.vafvwxxbafgveausvusxvkxmyuovndvsxcvdmixqvKyuvusmuv.yis
em.vusxvim.xvinyp vkxvm..ytx vdcntvusxvhyxxfpovbna.xvndvsxcvsxm ,
.ybbncux vnfvmvfxiw,vesais,vadvafvtmckpx,venyp vsmrxvkxxfvmuucakyux 
unvusxvxjxiyuanfvndvmvGcxxwvisa.xpqvUsxvpmuuxcvem.vxjbn.x ,vdncvusx
sagsvcydd,vafrmcamkpovencfvmuvusmuvbxcan vkovpm ax.,vsm vkxxfvcxtnrx 
dncvusxv.mwxvndvintdncuqvUsa.vm..ytbuanfvndvgcmixvndvbcnbncuanfvem.
infdactx vafunvmk.npyuxvwfnepx gx,vesxfvybnfv.xxafgvusxvdagycxvndvmvtmf
afvdyppvraxevybnfvusxvuscx.snp ,v.sxvcn.xvdcntvsxcvismacq

Auvem.vsxcvtnrxtxfu.,vbxcsmb.,vtncxvusmfvsxcvdagycxvusmuvenyp vsmrx
 cmefvusxvinfixfucmux vgmlxvndvmvicne x v cmeafg-cnntvybnfvsxcqvUsx
bxcdxiuv.ottxucovndvsxcvdnctvmf vcaisvxm.uxcfvpnnw,vsnexrxc,venyp vsmrx
sxp vmuuxfuanfvpnfgvmduxcvusxvtmgfxua.tvicxmux vkovusxvgcmixvndvsxc
imccamgxvsm vpn.uvau.v.bxppqvAdvsxcvtnrxtxfu.,vxfuacxpovmatpx..v.nvdmc
m.vinfixcfx vmfvnc afmcovnk.xcrxc,vinyp vsmrxvxjxcux v.yisvafdpyxfix
ybnfvusxvpmuuxc,vauvenyp vkxv addaiypuvunvatmgafx,vtyisvpx..v x.icakx,
usxvxddxiuvybnfvusxvnfxvesnvyfinf.iany.povem.vusxvtmgfxuvusmuvmuucmiux 
usa.vrxcaumkpxvIpxnbmucmq

Sxvtmovsmrxvucxtkpx veausvxtnuanf;vmvta.uvtmovsmrxvgmusxcx vafvsa.
xox.;vsa.v cxmt.vndvxuxcfmpvdmtxvfnevm..ytafgvmv xdafauxvtnyp vtmovsmrx
kxxfv.smwxfvafunvtxcxvdagtxfu.vndvusxvkcmafvafvusxvbcx.xfixvndvusa.,vun
sat,vusxvnfpovcxmpauovndvpadx,vndvuatx,vndvxuxcfauoqvKyuvesmuxrxcvexcx
sa.v.xf.muanf.,vncvusxacvnyuemc vxjbcx..anf.,vusxovexcxv cnefx vmf 
sa  xfvafvusxvuytypuvndvsa.vbm..anfvm.vusxventmfvuscxevsxc.xpdvafunvsa.
mct.q

Fnvenc .vfxx x vunvkxv.bnwxfvafvusa.v.micx vinttyfanfvndvtaf .qvXrxf
mvesa.bxcvenyp vsmrxvzmccx vusxvbxcdxiuvinttyfaimuanfvndvusnygsuvmf 
dxxpafgqvMta vtncxvmy.baiany.v.yccnyf afg.,vfnv a.uyckafgvxpxtxfuvinyp 
smrxvafucy x ;vkyuvxrxfvafvusxvdmafufx..vbcn yix vafvusxventmfvkovsa.
atbxuyny.vm..mypuvybnfvsxcvpab.,v.sxv.snnwveausvmbbcxsxf.anfvndvintafg
xrapq

“Ixm.x,vixm.x,”v.sxvgm.bx ,vxf xmrncafgvunv a.xfgmgxvsxc.xpdvdcntvsa.
mct.qv“Ms,vonyvwfnevfnuvnycvyf.uxm dm.uvdnnuafgq”

Sxv a vfnuvcxpxm.xvsxc,vkyuvusxv.nyf vndvsxcvrnaixvkcnwxv nefvusx
dpnn gmux.vndvsa.vpnfgvrnaixpx..vusnygsu.qvUsxovimtxvafvmvunccxfuq

“Esovmcxvonyvsxcx?vEsovsmrxvonyvkxxfv.apxfu?v a .uvusnyvfnuvpnrxvtx?
Esmuva.vusxvtxmfafgvndvusov.bpxf a v cx..,vusov xtxmfncvusmuv.snexus
infumiuveausvtncxvpyjycany.vtn x.vndvpadxvusmfvusn.xvunvesaisvonyvexcx
pmuxvmiiy.untx ?”

“N,vTmcpnex,vTmcpnex!”v.sxvxjipmatx vafvmf.exc,v“tovpadxvsm.vkxxfvim.u
mta vcmba .vybnfvesn.xv.ycdmixvAvsmrxvkxxfvm.vsxpbpx..vm.vusxv caduq
Uscnygsvmpp,vusovatmgxvsm.vkxxfvkxdncxvtx;vkyuvmbbmcxfupoveausvdmix
yfcx.bnf.arxvunvtov.apxfuvmbbxmp.qvUsxvcxinfiapamuanfvdncvesaisvA
bcmox vsm.vintxvmuvpxfgus,vkyu,vms,vunnvpmuxq”

“Sne?vAv nvfnuvyf xc.umf qvEsov nvonyv.nv.bxmw?vUnnvpmux?vSneva.vuso
.auymuanfvismfgx ?vTovpnrxvdncvusxxva.v.uappvusxv.mtxvm.vndvnp qvMf vA
excxv yppvndvintbcxsxf.anfvfnuvunvafuxcbcxuvusa.vxjsakauanfvndvdxxpafg
nfvusovbmcuvm.vmv.otknpvusmuvusxvnp vpnrx,vesaisvonyvnfixvkncxvunemc 
tx,vcxtmaf.q”

“Ox.,”v.sxvmf.excx ,v“kyuvsnbxpx..q”

“Esovsnbxpx..?v.bxmw,v.bxmw!”vsxv xtmf x q

“Usxcxva.vfnv.mdxuo,”v.sxvbcnux.ux qv“ mfgxcvpycw.vmknyuvy.qvXrxfvfne
exvtmovkxvucadpafgveausv xmusqvDcmlxcv xbmcux vnfpovmfvsnycv.afix
unv.xxvmvdcaxf vnfvmvrx..xpvusmuvpax.vmuvusxvesmcdvafvusxvunefqvSx
infuxtbpmux.vmvrnomgxvunvAumpoq”

“Dcmlxc?”vhyx.uanfx vWau,v.uappvxtkcmiafgvsxc,vfnuvoxuvcxmpalafgvusx
cxmpvinf auanfvndvmddmac.q

“Ox.,vusxvInyfu,”v.sxvmf.excx q

Mf vmuvusmuvtntxfu,vm.vusnygsvafvmf.excvunvsa.vfmtxv.nvdmafupov.bnwxf,
usxvInyfuvmbbxmcx vmuvusxvnbxfv nncemoq

Esapxv.y  xfvsm vkxxfvusxvbm..mgxvndvTmcpnexvdcntvusxvpnexcvcnntvun
usxvnfxvafvesaisvsxvfnev.unn ;vesapxvsa.vbmy.afgvmuvusxv nncvmf vsa.
gcxxuafgvndvusxventmfvsm vinf.ytx vkyuvmfvm  auanfmpvtntxfu,vxfnygs
uatxvsm vbm..x vdncvusxv.n-imppx vInyfuvmp.nvunveaus cmevdcntvusx
umb-cnnt,vmf vtmwxvusxv.mtxvbm..mgxqvAuvsm vumwxfvpnfgxc,vdncvsxvsm 
muuxtbux vunvtmwxvauvfna.xpx..qvSa.vdnppneafgvndvTmcpnexvsm vfnu
kxxfvniim.anfx vkovgcnyf px..v.y.baianf.vndvusxvpmuuxc’.vbycbn.xvaf
eaus cmeafgvdcntvusxvumb-cnntqvMpusnygsvsxvsm vfxrxcvsm vimy.xvun
.y.bxiuvsa.veadxvndvafda xpauo,vsxvem.vinfrafix vesxfvsxvfnuaix vusx
 xbmcuycxvndvusxvmiuncvusmuvmvtxxuafgvem.vmknyuvunvumwxvbpmixvafvesais
sx,vsat.xpd,vsm vmvraumpvafuxcx.uqvUsa.vinfraiuanfvem.vusxvcx.ypuvnd
sa.vsmrafgvmiia xfumppovsxmc vusxvenc .vesaisvsa.veadxvsm v.bnwxfvmu
fnnfvusmuv movunvUmkkmc qvUsa.vcxhyx.uvndvsxc.vdncvmvtxxuafgveausv.ntx
nfx,vintafgvipn.x,vm.vauvsm ,vnfvusxvsxxp.vndvmvhymccxp,vinfixcfafgvusx
infuxtbpmux vrnomgxvunvusxvinfuafxfu,vtm xvsatv.y.bxiuvmfvxpnbxtxfuq
Eausvesntvauvem.vunvkxvmuuxtbux vsxvsm vnkumafx vfnvwfnepx gxqv.nnf
mduxcvusxacvtmccamgx,vMffxvsm vcxmpalx vusxvafuxf.xpovzxmpny.vfmuycx
ndvusxvInyfu,vmf vusa.vsm vwxbuvsxcvdcntvmfovtxfuanfvndvsxcvnp 
pnrxcqvMuvusxvtxxuafgvkxuexxfvsy.kmf vmf veadx,vattx amuxpovmduxcvsa.
nrxcsxmcafgvsxcvenc .vunvUmkkmc ,vusxvInyfuvsm vwxbuvsa.vnefvinyf.xpq
M.vfagsuvimtxvnfvsxvsm vpyppx vmppvdxmc.vndv a.inrxcovesaisv.sxvtagsu
smuxvxfuxcumafx ,vkov xbmcuafgveausvusxvmffnyfixtxfuvusmuvsxvem.vgnafg
mknmc vusxv“Bxucxp”vmf venyp vcxuycfvfxmcvta fagsuqvSxvexfuvfnvdycusxc
usmfvusxvumb-cnnt,vesxcx,vmemauafgv xrxpnbtxfu.,veausvusxvimptfx..vnd
nfxvesnvwfneafgpovsnp .vmveaffafgvsmf ,vsxvsm vtxuvmf vemuisx vusx
uscxxvmiunc.qvAuvem.vfnuvyfuapvTmcpnexvmcn.xvmuvusxv.yttnf.vndvusx
.xcrafg-tmfvusmuvusxvInyfu’.v.y.baianf.vkximtxvixfuxcx ,vmf vm.vusx
pnexcv nncvipn.x vnfvusxvdnctxc’.veaus cmemp,vusxvpmuuxcveausvsm.uo
cxtmcw.vndv a.afipafmuanfvunvinfuafyxvusxvgmtx,vmp.nv.ucn xvdcntvusx
cnntqvSxvsm vfnuvxrxfvbmy.x vunv.sxmusxvsa.v.enc ,vmf veausvauvsxp 
afvuxf.xvgcm.bvbnafuafgvkxdncxvsat,veausvnfx,vdnnuvm rmfix vafunvusx
mbmcutxfuvmf vusxvnusxcvnfvusxvuscx.snp ,vsxv.unn vmv.bxiumuncvndvusx
mc xfuvtxxuafgvndvusxvpnrxc.q

Auvtagsuvkxvusnygsuvusmuvusxvraumpauovndvusxvtaf ’.vbaiuycxvndvmv.ixfx
dcntvsytmfvpadxv xbxf .vybnfvusxvbxiypamcauovncvragncvafvmiuanfvnd
usxvncagafmpqvKyuvusmuvusxv ycmuanfvmf v.ucxfgusvndvxja.uxfixvndv.yis
mvbaiuycxva.vfnuvunvkxvtxm.ycx vkovusa.vicauxcanfva.v.snefvafvnyc
xrmfx.ixfuvcxtxtkcmfixvndvxrxfvusxvtn.uvuscappafgvbpmo.qvYbnfvesmu
bcafiabpxva.vauvusmuvmv.ixfxva.vbxcbxuymppovsxp vafvyfdm afgvinpnc.
afvusxv.saduafgvgmppxcovndvusxvtaf ?vSneva.vauvusmuvnfxvbmcuaiypmc
.bxiumipxvafvusxvrm.uvbmfncmtmvndv mapovra.anfva.vmpnfxv.afgpx 
nyu,vmf v.exbuvafunvnycv cxmt.vdncxrxc?vAuva.vfxrxcvnycvrnpyfumco
.xpxiuanf,vdncvauva.vdcxhyxfupovmv.ixfxvndv acx.uvenx,vncvsnccncvmptn.u
af x.icakmkpx,vmppvndvesaisvexvenyp veappafgpovdncgxuq

Afv xuxctafafgvusx.xvhyx.uanf.vexvuycfvnycvusnygsu.vdcntvusxvnkzxiuvun
usxvcxiabaxfu,vmf vexvdaf vusmuvusxv.xicxuvpax.vafvusxvinf auanfvnd
.xf.auarxfx..vndvusxvpmuuxcvmuvusxvtntxfuvndvatbcx..anfqvUsy.,vadvmu
usmuvtntxfu,vusxv.nypva.vmuvusxvbnafuvndv.ybcxtxvxjmpumuanf,vncvafvusx
pnex.uv xbus.vndv x.bmac,vusxvnkzxiuvusmuvkcafg.vmknyuvmv.y  xfvmf 
mk.npyuxvismfgxvndvdxxpafgvkxintx.vnfxvndvusxvyf oafgvbaiuycx.vndvusx
taf q

Usa.vxjbpmaf.vesovauvem.vusmuvMffx’.vraxevndvusxvInyfuvafvusxv nncemo,
muvusxvtntxfuvndvsxcv.yccxf xcvunvTmcpnex,v.snuvxrxcovdxmuycx,vxrxco
pafx,vxrxcov.sm xvndvusxvdmixvndvusxvdnctxc,vm.vsxvusxfvmbbxmcx vun
sxc,vafunvusxvismtkxc.vndvsxcvkcmafvmf vdm.uxfx vusxtvusxcxvdncxrxcq
Xrxfvmuvsxcv oafgvsnyc,vnk.iycafgvusxvra.anf.vndvusxvusxfvea.sx -dnc
inyfuxfmfix.vndvusn.xv.sxvpnrx ,vem.vusmuvdmixveausvau.vgpxmtafgvxox.,
au.vmacvndv x.bxcmuanfvmf vaf.npxfuvinttmf ,vau.visxxw.vnfvesais
usxvdpy.svndveafxvmf vusxvbmppncvndv.ybbcx..x vcmgxvinfuxf x vdnc
xjsakauanf,vau.vfn.ucap.vxjbmf x vafunvmv.fxxc,vmf vau.vpab.vxjbcx..arx
ndv xuxctafx vranpxfixqvAuvem.vusxvbaiuycxvndvmfvmrxfgxcvgpnmuafgvnrxc
usxvm..ycx vbcn.bxiuvndvusxvfxmcvdypdapptxfuvndvmvtyc xcny.vrneq

Usxventmfvafvsxcvdcagsuvsm v a.xfgmgx vsxc.xpdvdcntvusxvxtkcmix,vmf 
eausvusxvmbbcxsxf.anfvndvintafgv a.m.uxcvecauuxfvbpmafpovnfvsxcvdmix,
.unn vmuvnfxv.a xvgmlafgvmuvusxvuenvtxfqvM.v.sxv a v.n,v.sxvinyp vfnu
cx.ucmafvmfvxjipmtmuanfvndvenf xcvmuvusxv.ucawafgvcx.xtkpmfixvkxuexxf
usxtqvUsxovexcxvndvtyisvusxv.mtxvsxagsuvmf vdagycx;vknusvdmix.vexcx
 xrna vndvkxmc ;vusxacvdxmuycx.v.xxtx vunvsmrxvkxxfvim.uvafvusxv.mtx
tnp ;vusxacvdpm.safgvxox.vndv.ntxesmuv.atapmcvinpnc,vmf vusxv mcwvsmac
ndvxmisvsyfgvsxmrovmf vpyjycamfupoqv.sxvsm vusnygsuvndvusa.vcx.xtkpmfix
kxdncx,vmf vauvem.vusxvdac.uvmuucmiuanfv.sxvsm v a.inrxcx vafvDcmlxc,
mf vusxvpm.uvusmuvsm vinfuafyx vunvkaf vsxcvunvsatqvKyuvmuvfnvuatxvsm 
.sxvinf.a xcx vusa.vcx.xtkpmfixv.nvbcnfnyfix vm.vusa.vtxxuafgvbcnrx vau
unvkxqvUsxov.xxtx vpawxvuenvkcnusxc.vafvmbbxmcmfix,vmf vusxvatbxf afg
intkmuvem.vpawxvmvsnccakpxvucmrx.uovndvpadxvdycfa.sx v.npxpovunvxjiaux
sxcvintta.xcmuanfq

Tmcpnexvsm vuycfx vmf vsmpdv cmefvsa.vcmbaxc,vesapxvsa.vipnmw,
syccax povyfipm.bx vmuvsa.vuscnmu,vsm vdmppxfvunvusxvdpnncqvAuvem.vusx
Inyfuvesnvdac.uvkcnwxvusxvnbbcx..arxv.apxfixq

“Tov.y.baianf.vexcxvcagsu,”vsxv.ma ,vpnnwafgvmuvusxventmfqv“Mf vusny,”
sxvsa..x ,vgpmcafgvmuvusxvtmf,v“ cmevusov.enc qvAvinyp vwappvusxx
pawxvmvcmu,vkyuvusxvknp fx..vndvusovxfucovsxcxvxfuaupx.vusxxvunvtncx
inf.a xcmuanfqvUsnyvmcuvfnuvmvinemc vafvxrxcov.xf.xvndvusxvenc q”

Sxv xpakxcmuxpovuycfx vpawxvnfxvesnvsm vmvgcmrx,vkyuvfnuvmv mfgxcny.
um.wvnfvsmf ,v.syuvusxv nncvmf vknpux vauqvM.vsxvuycfx vsxvimptpo
cnppx vkmiwvusxvcyddvdcntvsa.v.enc vsmf ,vmf vuscxevsa.vsmuvesacpafg
dcntvsa.vsxm q

Tmcpnex,vafvusxvtxmfuatx,veausvsa.vxox.vgpmfiafgvdcntvnfxvunvusxvnusxc
ndvusxvuenvbxc.nf.vusy.vinfdafx veausvsat.xpd,vsm v cmefvsa.vexmbnfq
Fnuvoxuv a vsxvyf xc.umf vusxvimy.xvndvusxventmf’.vmpmct,vfncveso
usa.vtmfveausvcy xvafucy.anfvmf veausvmfvmacvndvafzycx v agfauovmf 
ranpxfix,vdmix vmf vuscxmuxfx vsatvmuvusxv.enc ’.vbnafuqvSa.vdmixvem.
kpmfisx ,vsa.vsmf vucxtkpx vmf vsxvafrnpyfumcapovcxucxmux vdncvmv.uxb
ncvuenqvSxvwfxevusxvxjbxcufx..vndvusxvtmfvkxdncxvsatvafvsmf pafgvm
dnap,vmf vsxvinyp vfnuvbcxrxfuvusxvwfnepx gxvndvsa.vicauaimpv.auymuanf
dcntv a.bpmoafgvau.xpdvkovnyuemc v.otknp.q

Dcmlxcv.tapx vmuvsa.vxra xfuv a.ucx..q

“Onyvdxmcvtx,”vsxv.ma q

Usxvnusxcv a vfnuvcx.bnf ,vkyuvsxvtm xvmvdycusxcvxddncuvunvinfixmpvsa.
mfjaxuo,vmf vtncxvmuuxfuarxpovnk.xcrx vxrxcovtnrxtxfuvndvusxvtmfvesn
em.vusy.vdnciafgvsatvunvtncumpvintkmuqvDcntvesmuvsxvsm vbcxrany.pov.xxf
ndvDcmlxcvsxvsm vfnuvkxxfvatbcx..x veausvusxva xmvusmuvsxvem.vbn..x..x 
ndvmv.ybxcmkyf mfixvndvinycmgx,vmf vsxvinyp vfnuvkyuvxfuxcumafvusx
nbafanfvusmuvusxvinfda xfixvmf vkcmrxcovfnev a.bpmox vmcn.xvdcntvusx
dmiuvusmuvsa.vnefvafxjbxcufx..vem.vusncnygspovwfnefqvSxva.vbcnkmkpovm
inemc vmuvsxmcu,vsxvusnygsu,vmf veausvusa.vsxvcxgmafx vinfda xfixvaf
sat.xpdq

“Av a vfnuvwfne,”vmgmafv.ma vusxvInyfu,v“esaisvnfxvndvusxvuscxxvem.
xjbxiux vsxcxqvUsxvxjsakauanfvndvtovucy.uov.enc vem.vfnvemcfafg,vau
.xxt.q”

“Onyvty.uvsnp vusxvismcmiuxc.vndvusn.xveausvesntvonyvintxvafunvinfumiu
afvpagsuvinf.a xcmuanf,vadvonyvusafwvusmuvtxcxpovusxv.sneafgvndvmv.enc 
enyp vwxxbvnfxvafvmex,”vcxuncux vTmcpnex,vcyddpx vkovusxvcxtmcwq

“Esmu!vAvusnygsuvonyvsm v.emppnex vonycvunfgyxvafvonycvdcagsu!”
xjipmatx vusxvnusxc,veausvmv.fxxcq

“Pnnwvunvauvusmuvonyc.va.vfnuvemggafgvau.vpm.u,”vcxuycfx vTmcpnex,
.uxcfpoq

Usxvpagsu.vndvusxvimf xpmkcytvnfvusxvumkpxvkycfx vm.v.uxm apovm.vusn.x
ndvmv xmus-ismtkxcqvUsxovuscxevusxv.sm nevndvusxvInyfuvmgmaf.uvusxvcx 
mccm.,vkxsaf vesais,vafvusxvmpinrx,v.unn vusxvkx vdncvusxvmbmcutxfu;
mf vtncxv mcwpovbcnzxiux vusxvdagycxvndvsa.vmfumgnfa.uvybnfvusxvesaux
emppvkxuexxfvusxvpmuuaix veaf ne.qvUsxov.snex vusxvinpncpx..vdmixvnd
usxventmfvesais,veausvau.v.m vxjbcx..anf,vem.vndv.yisv.ucawafgvkxmyuo,
usmuvafvusxvtntxfumcovgpatb.xvmddnc x vmuvusxvbnafuvndvfnf-miuanf,vnfx
enyp vsmrxv.imcixpovfnux vusxvgcmixvndvsxcvimccamgxvncvusxvxpxgmfixvnd
sxcvmuuacxq

“Kovesmuvbcxuxf x vafdcafgxtxfuvndvmfovcagsu.vndvusafxv nvonyvdncix
usa.v yxp?”vm.wx vTmcpnexq

“Bcxuxf x !”v.fxxcx vDcmlxcqv“A.vfnuvonycvbcx.xfixvsxcxvmvranpmuanfvnd
mppvusxv.micx vcagsu.vndvmvsntx?”

“Esmu,vmcxvonyvusa.vpm o’.vsy.kmf ?”vm.wx vTmcpnex,vmf veausvmtmlxtxfu
sxvpnnwx vmuvusxventmf,vesnv a vfnuvxf xmrncvunvcxuycfvmfvmf.excq

“Onycvhyx.uanfva.vapp-uatx ,”vxjipmatx vDcmlxc,vm rmfiafgqv“ xdxf 
onyc.xpd!”

Sxvpyfgx vdncemc ,vkyuvTmcpnexvsm vuscnefvsat.xpdvnfvgymc ,vmf vusx
uscy.uvem.v.wappdyppovbmccax qvUsxvkpm x.vcmfgv.smcbpo,vmf vauv.xxtx 
usmuvusxvimf px.vkpmlx vybemc veausvmvdaxcixcvpagsuqvUsxvInyfuvm..ytx 
usxvmggcx..arxvdcntvusxvdac.u;vkyuvadvsa.v xtxmfncvaf aimux vsa.vcxmp
dxxpafg.,vauvem.vusmuvndvmfvxjxiyuanfxcvcmusxcvusmfvmfvmrxfgxcqvSxvem.
innpvmf v xpakxcmux,v.sneafgvfxausxcvbm..anfvfncvdycoqvM.vinfucm.ux 
eausvusa.,vsa.vnbbnfxfuvdnygsuveausvusxv.ucxfgusvndv x.bmacqvEsxusxc
auvem.vusmuvusxventmfvcxm vusx.xvxjbcx..anf.,vncvusmuvusxvtnrx.vndvusx
intkmumfu.vafuxcbcxux vunvsxcvusxv.auymuanfvmf vau.vbcnkmkpxvdafmp
a..yx,v.sxvdxpuvusmuvfnusafgvkyuvmvtacmipxvinyp vmrxcuvusxvatbxf afg
impmtauoqv.sxv.me,vm.vafvmvgpm..v mcwpo,vusxvkpxx afgvkn ovndvsxc
pnrxc,vmf veausvmvicov.sxvdxppvdncemc vnfvsxcvwfxx.vmuvDcmlxc’.vdxxuq

“.bmcxvsat,vInyfu,”v.sxvtnmfx q

.sxvsm vipm.bx vsa.vwfxx;vkyuvfxrxcvumwafgvsa.vxox.vdcntvusn.xvndvusx
tmfvkxdncxvsat,vsxvcy xpov.snnwvsxcvnddq

“.n,vauva.vAvonyvenyp v.xxv.pmaf,”vsxvtyuuxcx ,v.mrmgxpoq

Sa.vnbbnfxfuvem.v.sneafgvgcxmuxcv.wappvusmfvsxvsm vmfuaiabmux ,vmf 
sa.vdmixvgcxevgcmrxcvafvau.vxjbcx..anfqvIpm.s,vipm.s,vipm.s,vcmfgvusx
kpm x.,vmf vusxv.umtbvndvdxxuvybnfvusxvisxiwxcx vimcbxuvgcxevhyaiwxc
mf vsxmraxcqv.uappvusxvmiuncvcxucxmux vafviycrx.vmcnyf vusxvcnnt,vmf 
.uappvusxvInyfuvbcx..x vsatq

.y  xfpovusxvyfdncx.xxfvsmbbxfx qvUsxvInyfuvdnyf vsa.vdnnuvxfumfgpx vaf
usxvdnp .vndvusxvipnmwvesaisvTmcpnexvsm vpxuvdmppvybnfvusxvdpnncqvSx
xf xmrncx vunvwaiwvauvm.a xvkyuvpn.uvsa.vxhyapakcaytqvUsxvnusxcvkximtx
usxvmggcx..nc,vmf veausvmv x.bxcmuxvpyfgx,vm.vusxvInyfuv.uytkpx ,vsx
uscy.uvsa.vcmbaxcvkpm xv xxbvafunvusxvxoxvmf vkcmafvndvusxvpmuuxcq
Usxv.ucaiwxfv.enc .tmfvgmrxvyuuxcmfixvunvmv.mrmgxvkyuv.ybbcx..x vico
ndvbmafqvUsxvuxtbncmcovisxiwvunvsa.vdmppvnfpovaficxm.x vau.vatbxuy.
esxfvusxvcmbaxcvem.vecxfisx vdcntvau.vpn gtxfu,vmf veausvmvicm.svsx
 x.ixf x vunvusxvdpnncq

Mppv.nyf .vpmovsy.sx veausvusxvdmppqvUsxvparafgvtmfvpnnwx v.bxxispx..po
muvsa.vmfumgnfa.uvnyu.ucxuisx veausvdmixv nefemc vnfvusxvimcbxu,vmf 
.uappvcxumafafgvmv oafgvipyuisvybnfvusxvsapuvndvsa.v.enc qvUsxvxf vsm 
intxv.nvyfxjbxiux povusmuvdncvmvtntxfuvusxv.ycrarncv a vfnuvgcm.bvusx
dyppvxjuxfuvndvsa.vraiuncovfncvusxvinf.xhyxfix.vndvusxv xx qvSxvpxmfx 
nrxcvusxvyfdncuyfmuxvtmfvmf vuycfx vsatvnfvsa.vkmiwqvSxv.mevusmuvsxvem.
kxonf vusxvma vndvxmcuspovbnexcqvSxvsxmc vsatvkcxmusxvafvgm.b.,vmf 
usxf,vucxtkpafgvpawxvmfvm.bxf,vsxv cnbbx vsa.vnefvcmbaxcvybnfvusxvdpnnc
mf vpxmfx vkmiwvmgmaf.uvusxvemppq




USXvINRXCvNDvSA.vDMTXq

vvvv_Intxv xmusvmf veausvusovdafgxc.vipn.xvtovxox.,_
vvvv_NcvadvAvparx,vpxuvtxvdncgxuvto.xpd:_

vvvv--_X emc vusxv.xinf ,vr,v1q_

vvvv_NsvGn !--Sncmuan,vesmuvmvenyf x vfmtx,_
vvvv_Usafg.v.umf afgvusy.vyfwfnef,v.smppvpxmrxvkxsaf vtx!_

vvvv--_Smtpxu,vr,v2q_


Usxvuxctafmuanfvndvusxvintkmuvmemwxfx vdxxpafg.vafvusxventmfvrmcax 
afvusxacvismcmiuxcvmf vdnppneafgvnfxvmfnusxcveausvusxv.bxx vnd
.yiix..arxvusnygsu.qv.sxvem.v.uyffx veausvusxv.y  xffx..vndvusxvipn.x;
snccnc-.ucaiwxfveausvusxvranpxfixvndvusxvimum.ucnbsx;vxpmux veausvusx
x.imbxvndvTmcpnex,vdaf vucxtypny.veausv.otbmusovdncvusxvyfdncuyfmux
.pmafqvAfvsxcv.apxfuvbcmoxcvdncvusxv xparxcmfixvndvTmcpnex,v.sxvsm 
nfpovusnygsuvndvauvuscnygsv xpakxcmuxvucyix,vncvafuxcdxcxfixvdcnt
eausnyuqvFnva xmvndvsa.vx.imbxvuscnygsvusxv xmusvndvsa.vmfumgnfa.uvsm 
niiyccx vunvsxcqv.sxvinyp vfnuvsmrxvbcmox vdncv.yisvimum.ucnbsx,vmf 
xrxfvusxvea.svem.vdncxagfvunvsxcvtaf qvMppvusxvinfda xfixvusmuvDcm.xc
sm v a.bpmox vsm vkxxfvatbcx..x vybnfvsxc,vmf vusxcxvsm vkxxfvfnusafg
afvusxvbcnpnfgx ,vusnygsv.wappdyp,vcx.a.umfixvndvTmcpnexvusmuvsm 
cma.x vmv nykuvnrxcvusxv cxm x vnyuintxq

Dmafuveausvsxcvpn..vndvsnbxvdncvtxciovnfvusxvbmcuvndvDcmlxc,v.sxvsm 
icxbuvunvusxv nncveausvusxva xmvndvuscneafgvauvnbxfvmf vmpmctafgvusx
sny.xqvEausvnfxvsmf vnfvusxvknpuvmf vusxvnusxcvnfvusxvwfnkv.sxvsm 
uycfx vsxcvdmixvdncvmvpm.uvpnnwvmuvusxvintkmumfu.qvAuvem.vmuvusa.
tntxfuvusmuvusxvinybv xvgcmixvem.vgarxfqv.sxvuycfx vmknyuvmf v.umcux 
dncemc veausvmvpnevico,vbmcupovndvcxpaxd,vbmcupovndvmfgya.s,vbmcupovnd
snccncq

Usxcxvem.v.ntxusafgvafvusxvmgnfalx vdmixvndvusxvenyf x vtmf,vusmu,
esapxvauvmemwxfx vsxcvbauo,vcxbxppx vsxcqvSxvem.v.uappvipyuisafgvsa.
.enc vm.vusnygsvunvuscy.uvauvmuvsa.vyf.xxfvm rxc.mco,vmf vusxvbnafu
ndvusxvucxtkpafgvkpm xv mfix vnfvusxvimcbxuqvSxcvatbyp.xvsm vkxxf
unvmddnc vsatv.yiinc,vkyuvusxv.agsuvndvsa.v oafgv.ucyggpx.,vmf vusx
exmwfx..vndvsxcvpatk.vbcxrxfux qv.sxv.mfwvnfvmvinyisvkxdncxvnfxvndvusx
empp.,vmf ,vm.vusnygsvdm.iafmux vkovusxv.ixfxvusmuvsm vcxf xcx vsxc
tntxfumcapovbnexcpx..,v.sxvinfuafyx vunvgmlxvybnfvauq

Usxvtncka viycan.auovusmuvinfucnp.vmfvnk.xcrxcvndvusxv.ucnfgx.uvmgnfax.
mbbxmc.vunvgarxvusxvpaxvunvusxvkxpaxdvusmuvtmfva.vfmuycmppovsytmfx;vnc
esov nx.vcx.a.umfixvmgmaf.uvatbxf afgv xmusvmuucmiuvtncxvusmfvkxmyuo
ncvusxvbxmixdyppov.ykpatx?vNycvcx.a.umfixvmgmaf.uvnk.xcrmuanfvmrmapxus
fnu,vyfuapvusxva..yxva.vfnvpnfgxcvafv nykuqvA.vauvfnuvkximy.xvusx
gpnevmf vdacxvndvafuxf.xvmiuanfva.vinttyfaimux vdcntvusxvmiuncvunvusx
.bxiumunc?vdncvxrxfvdcmapuovndvbso.aimpvkn o,vncvbycauovndvtaf vimfvfnu
ipn.xvusxvxox.vmuvusmuvbnafuvesxcxvafvusxv.ybcxtxv.ucyggpxvfxausxcvpadx
fncv xmusvmbbxmc.vunvsmrxvintbpxuxvtm.uxco?vKyuvesxfvusxvsnccncvsm.
cxmisx vau.vipatmj,vafuxcx.uvdmap.veausvusxvix..muanfvndvmiuanf,vmf 
adv xmusvsmusvbcxrmapx ,vusxfvmuvpxfgusvexvsa xvnycvdmix.q

Usy.vauvem.vusmuvusxventmfvem.vinfucnppx ;vusy.vauvem.vusmu,v.bxxispx..
mf veausv.ucmafafgvra.anf,v.sxvimygsuvxrxcovtnrxvndvusxvtmfvkxdncx
sxcqvSa.v.ucyggpx.vgcxevpx..;vsa.vgm.bafg.vtncxvbcnpnfgx vmf visnwx ,
yfuapveausvmvpm.uvxddncuvsxvbmcupovcma.x vsat.xpdvmf vusxfvdxppvkmiw
tnuanfpx..qvUsxv xmus-cmuupxvx.imbx vdcntvsa.vpab.,vmf vdcntvusx
xf.yafgv.apxfix,vusxventmfvwfxevusmuvusxvkn ovybnfvusxvdpnncvem.
padxpx..;vkyuv.sxv.mevauvfnuqv.sxvsm vpnfgv x.acx vmv.xbmcmuanfvdcnt
usa.vtmf,vkyuvfnuvmuv.yisv.micadaixqv.sxvusnygsuvfnuvndvauvusxf,vxrxf
eausvusxvnp vpnrxvcxuycfx vmf vxrxcovnk.umipxvmbbmcxfupov.exbuvm.a xq
Auvem.vusxvusnygsuvndvtyc xcv nfxvusmuv.ycgx vafvmf vnyu,vmf vafvmf 
nyu,vndvsxcvtaf q

Mf vTmcpnex,v.uappvmgmaf.uvusxvempp,v.xxtx vcxxpafgveausvusxvkyc xfvnd
sa.vusnygsu.qvSxv.mevfnuvusxventmfveausvuxccnc-.ucaiwxfvdmixvkxdncx
sat;vsxv.mevfnuvusxvdpmcafgvimf px.,vusxvdmppxfvismac.,vusxvfmwx 
.enc .vybnfvusxvdpnnc,vusxvkpxx afgvkn ovfxmcvsa.vdxxuqvMppvusx.x
nkzxiu.vexcxvkxdncxvsa.vnbxfvxox.,vkyuvusxvsnccncvndvusxv.ixfxvsm 
kcx vfxevmf v.saduafgvbsmfunt.qvUsxv.bacauvesaisvafvhyaxuvtx aumuanf
sm vkn ax vdncusvusxvgnn vmf vxrapvmfgxp.vndvDmy.uy.,vusxvsmcfx..x 
xtbxcnc.vndvUmtkycpmafxvmf vusxv oafgvX emc ,vfnev.mevau.xpdvafvkn o
snyf x vkovusxvnddaixc.vndvusxvpme;v.mevusxvatbm..arxvzy gx,vusxv ypp
zyco,vmf vusxv.sm nevndvusxvgmppne.q

Sxv.mevusxvsnfnc.vndvImtkca gxvkpnuux veausv.umaf.vaf xpakpx;vusx
mrxcux vdmixvndvEmp.afgsmt,vsa.vbmucnf;vusxv.m vinyfuxfmfixvndvTmfenn ,
yf xcvesn.xvdpmuuxcafgvbcma.xvmf vdafmfiampvma vsxvsm vbyc.yx vsa.
.uy ax.qvMf ,vipn.xcv.uapp,vsxv.mevusxvucnykpx vmf vbmppa vdmixvndvusmu
nfxventmf,vesn,veausv.uxm dm.uvdmausvafvsa.vgxfay.vmf vyf oafgvsnbxvaf
sa.vypuatmuxpovgpncany.vimcxxc,vbcmox vxrxcvdncvsatvyf xcvusxvsntx-cnnd
afvImfuxckycoqvEm.v.sx--sa.vtnusxc--unvsxmcvndvsa.vucamp,vmf v xmus
yf xcv.xfuxfixvndvusxvpme?vMf vTmcpnex,vesmuvndvuso.xpd?

Afvusxvucmafvndvusx.xv mcwvbcx.xfuatxfu.vndvesmuvusxvtmuxcampvpadx
bcnta.x ,vimtxvfnevusxvsxmrovipny .vecnygsuvuscnygsvinf.a xcmuanfvnd
usxvm.bxiuvndvsa.va xmpvencp qvUsxvucxkpxv mcwfx..vndvfagsuvem.vmknyu
satqvUsxv cxmt.veausvesaisvsxvsm vfyc.x vsa.vmtkauanfvrmfa.sx qvMf 
usmuvmtkauanfvsnev xbpncmkpovmffasapmux qvSxvesnvsm vecauuxf:

vvvv“Racuyxv.npxpova.vusxv.ytvndvgpnco,
vvvvvMf vdm.sanf.vtxfveausvucyxvfnkapauo,”

cxhyacx vfnvbn.usytny.vpafx.vunvbnafuvsa.vbpmixvmtnfgvusxvattncump.q
Esmuv cmtm.v.unn vnfvusxv.mtxvxtafxfixveausvDmy.uy.vmf vX emc vusx
.xinf ?vExcxvfnuvusxvgmux.vndvusxvaffxcvuxtbpxvnbxfafgvea xvkxdncxvsat?
Excxvfnuvsa.vdmfio’.veafg.vgmusxcafgv.ucxfgusvdncvgcxmuxcvdpagsu.?vUsx
dpy.svndvonyusvmuvfafx-mf -uexfuovem.vybnfvsat;vusxvdmuxvndvmvtyc xcxc
memaux vsatqvNdvcxm.nfafgvdmiypuov.ykpatx,vsxv.sy  xcx vmuvusxvusnygsu
ndvsa.vfmtxvkxafgvxuxcfmppovpafwx veausvicatxq

Afvusa.vmgnfo,vmppvusnygsu.vndvusxvncagafmpvbycbn.xvndvsa.vbcx.xfixvaf
usxvcnnt,vmppvinf.a xcmuanfvndvusxventmf,vexcxvkycax vm.vusnygsvkxfxmus
aixqvAuvem.vusxvinfucm.ux vusnygsu.vndvusxvsxagsuvdcntvesaisvsxvsm 
dmppxfveausvusxv xbusvusmuvsxvsm vcxmisx vusmuvbxcrm x vsa.vtaf qvSx
kpaf x vsa.vxox.veausvsa.vsmf vmf v.umggxcx vpawxvmv cyfwxfvtmfvmicn..
usxvcnntvunemc vusxveaf ne.vmuvusxvdcnfu,vesxcxvsxv.unn vpnnwafgvnyu
uscnygsvusxvpmuuaix,vkmiwvdcntvesaisvusxvsxmrov.syuuxc.vsm vkxxfv.eyfgq
Fnvnkzxiu.vtxuvsa.vgmlx;vfnv.nyf .vmcn.xqvUsxventmfvsxmc vsa.v.uxb.vmf 
mcny.x vsxc.xpdqvAuvem.vWauvesntv.sxv.me,vmf vusxvimptfx..vcx.ypuafg
dcntvsxcvwfnepx gxvndvdcxx ntvdcntvsmux vuax.vimtxvunvsxcvpawxvdcx.s
macvuscnygsveaf ne.vpmuxpovbxfuqvUsxv xm vtmfvx.imbx vsxcvxox.;v.sxv.me
fnvnfxvkyuvusxvparafg,vmf vcma.afgvsxc.xpdvdcntvusxvinyisv.sxvdnppnex 
satvmicn..vusxvcnntqvTa.mbbcxsxf afgvusxvfmuycxvndvsa.v a.ucx..,v.sx
esa.bxcx vxfinycmgafgpo:

“Usxcxva.vismfixvdncvx.imbxq”

Sxv a vfnuvmf.excvsxc,vmf vusa.vyuuxcv a.cxgmc vndvsxcvbcx.xfixvmf vnd
sxcvrnaixvbcnrnwx vmfvafrnpyfumcovucxtncq

“Wau,vWau,vWau,”v.sxv.ma ,vbcnpnfgafgvusxvfmtxveausvxmisvyuuxcmfix,v“ n
onyvfnuvsxmcvtx?vFnvmpmctvsm.vkxxfvgarxfqvExvimfvx.imbxq”

Kyuv.uappvsxvgmrxvfnv.agfvndvsxmcafg,vmf v.sxv.snnwvsa.v.snyp xc
 x.bxcmuxpovmf vuycfx vsa.vdmixv.nvusmuvsa.vxox.vinyp vfnuvkyuv expp
ybnfvsxcvdmixqvMgmafv.sxv.bnwxv.otbmusalafgpo:

“Muvenc.u,v’uem.v nfxvafv.xpd- xdxf.xqvUsxvintkmuvem.vdncix vybnfvonyq
Mf vem.vfnuvusxvdmumpv.ucnwxvmfvmiia xfu?vIntx,vintx,vexvimfvfnuvcxtmaf
sxcxq”

“.xpd- xdxf.x?”vsxvcxbxmux ,vhyx.uanfafgpo,vm.vusnygsvusxva xmvem.
mvfxevnfxvgxfxcmux vesnppovuscnygsvsa.vnefv xpakxcmuanf.qv“’Uem.vm
 yxp,vmf vmv xmusvafv.yisvxrxfuva.vtyc xc,”vsxvm  x ,vnk.xcrafgvsxc
mbbmcxfupovdncvusxvdac.uvuatxq

“Usnyvinyp .uvfnuvmrna vusxv xx ,”v.sxv.ma vafvcxtnf.ucmfixq

“Ucyx,vkyuvesmuvndvusmu?v a vfnuvSnbunf,vCxfne,vmf v mpunfv.xxwvcxdygx
yf xcv.yisvmvbpxmveausnyuvmrmap?vUsxvnyuintxvndvmvumrxcfvkcmepveapp
fnuvkxvsmf px vkovmvzy gxveausvgpnrx.vnfqvUsxvzyco,vauva.vucyx,vimf
.bxmwvkyuvnfpovyf xcvusxv acxiuanfvndvusxvinycuq”vSxv.xxtx vumpwafgvun
sat.xpd,vkyuvmpny v.nvusmuv.sxvsxmc vsatqv“Usxvwappafgvndvmfnusxcvafvm
 yxpva.vtyc xcvnfvusxvbmcuvndvusxv.ycrarncqvMf vusxfvusxvafdmtovndv.yis
mvucamp!”

“Kyu,”v.sxvxjipmatx ,v“onyvtmovmrna vmccx.uqvMf vm.vdncvafdmto,vusx
 a.gcmixvenyp vkxvtafxqvTovsy.kmf vwappx vkovusxxvmf vafvtovmbmcutxfu.q”

Muvusx.xvpmuuxcvusnygsu.vusxvpnnwvndv a.ucx..v xxbxfx vnfvsxcvdmix,
mf vusxvexmwfx..vxjsakaux vem.vafv.ucawafgvinfucm.uveausvusxv.ucxfgus
.sxvsm v a.bpmox vafvsxcvxf xmrncvunvmddnc vsatv.npmixqvSa.vmbbmcxfu
inp fx..vsm vmp.nvisappx vmf vcxbxppx vsxc,vmf vfnuvyf xc.umf afgvusx
fmuycxvndvmv x.bmacvafvesaisvsxvinyp vfnuvgarxv.ntxvdmafuvxjbcx..anfvnd
pnrxvdncvsxc,v.sxv.mfwvsxpbpx..vmuvsa.vdxxuq

Usa.vtnrxtxfuv.snnwvsatvdcntvsa.vkcnn afgvnrxcvusxvdmc-cxmisafgvmf 
 a.umfuvxddxiuvndvusxvdmumpv.ucnwx,vunvmvinf.a xcmuanfvndvusxvparafg
cxmpauoqvUsxvua xvndvsa.vdxxpafg.vcn.xvafvau.vbcnbxcvismffxp;vsxvkxfu
nrxcvsxcvintbm..anfmuxpovmf vcma.x vsxcvdcntvusxvdpnncq

“Mffx,vMffx,”vsxv.ma veausvcxuycfafgvdxcrnc,v“dncgarxvtxvdncvto
.xpda.sfx..qvAvsmrxvkxxfv.nvkpaf x vkovusxv mcwfx..vusmuvAvusnygsuvA
empwx vmpnfxqvMf vesmuva.vtovta.xcovintbmcx veausvusafx?”

Sxvsxp vsxcvipn.xpovafvsa.vmct.qvAuvem.vfnuv.ucmfgxvusmuvmvcxpmjmuanf
ndvtaf v.snyp vdnppneveausvusxvwfnepx gxvusmuv.sxvem.vfnuv.umf afg
esnppovmpnfxqvEausvsxcvcxmpa.muanfvusmuvsa.vbm.uvaf addxcxfixvsm vkxxf
kyuvmvuxtbncmcovinf auanf,vsxcvxtnuanf.vkximtxvunnv.ucnfgvunvinfucnp,
mf vusxvdpnn vndvuxmc.vusmuvexppx vdcntvsxcvxox.vgmrxvxra xfixvndvusx
cxixfuv.ucmafvunvesaisvsxcvdxxpafg.vsm vkxxfv.ykzxiux qvSxv a vfnu
muuxtbuvunv.yk yxvusa.vxjsakauanfvndv.xf.auarxfx..vxjixbuveausvenc .vnd
snbxvmf vm..ycmfixvndvsa.vpnrx,vesapxvsxvinfuafyx vunvsnp vsxcvunvsatq
Usxvxtnuanfvsm vmuvpxfgusv.bxfuvau.vdncix,vmf vmvimptfx..vusmuv.xxtx 
yffmuycmpvafvusxvbcx.xfixvndvusxv xm vbxcrm x vsxcqvCxpxm.afgvsxc.xpd
dcntvsa.vxtkcmixv.sxvexfuvnrxcvmf vwfxxpx v nefvkx.a xvusxvkn ovnd
Dcmlxcqv.sxvunyisx vusxvdmixvintbm..anfmuxpo,vmuvusxv.mtxvuatxv.sniwx 
eausvusxv.xf.xvusmuvpadxvem.vesnppovxjuafiuqvUsxvdmixvem.vuycfx 
kmiwv.nvusmuvusxvenyf vem.vnfvusxv.a xvunemc vusxvdpnncqvSmpdvndvusx
snccakpxfx..vndvusxvnkzxiuvem.vusy.vsa  xf,vmf vraxeafgvusxvbcndapxv.sx
em.vmgmafv.ucyiwveausvau.vpawxfx..vunvTmcpnex’.q

“Pnnw,”v.sxv.ma vunvsxcvintbmfanf,vesnv.unn vfxmcvsxc,v“snevpawxvsxva.
unvusxxq”

“.n?”vsxvm.wx ,vhyaiwpoq

“Ox.,v nvonyvfnuv.xx?vA.vusxcxvfnuvmv.ucawafgv.atapmcauovafvdnct?vA.
fnuvusxvfn.xvusxv.mtxvm.vusafx?vUsxvdmixvipxmfv.smrxf;vusxvsmacvndvpawx
inpnc?”

“Kyuvsa.v cx..q”

Sxv.bnwxvm.vusnygsvunvismfgxvsxcvnbafanf,vmf vusxfvm  x ,v“ n.uvusny
txmfvusmuvusxcxva.vxfnygsvcx.xtkpmfixvdncvusxvnfxvunvkxvumwxfvdncvusx
nusxc?”

Usa.vuatxvsa.vmfjaxuovdncvmfvmddactmuarxvmf.excvinyp vsmrxvkxxfvcxm vko
usxvrxcax.uvuocnq

“Pawx?vOx.,vtyisvpawx,vmf vesxfvonyvtxuvsxcxvAvem.v.umcupx vkovusx
cx.xtkpmfix,”v.sxvmf.excx v xia x po;vmf vafvmv.ucmafvpawxvusmuvnd
nfxvesn.xvtaf vsm.v expuvpnfgvmf vafuxf.xpovybnfvusxv.ykzxiu,v.sx
infuafyx ,v“Avinyp vfnuvdmapvunvinttxfuvnfvauvesxfvAvtxuvsatv.sncupo
mduxcvAvpm.uv.mevonyvmf vesxfvAvkxpaxrx vexvexcxv nfxveausvxmisvnusxc
dncvxrxcqvAuvem.vusa.vusmuv cxevtovmuuxfuanfvunvsat,vmf vbcxrmapx vybnf
kovsa.vmbbmcxfupov.afixcxvbcndx..anf.vndvpnrx,vAvkximtxvsa.veadxq”

“Esxfvem.vusa.vtmccamgx,vMffx?”vsxvafuxccybux q

“Sm vonyvfnuvsxmc vndvau?”

“Fn,”vsxvmf.excx ,v“fncvxrxfvxfuxcumafx vmv.y.baianfvusmuvonyvsm v.n
.nnfvdncgnuuxfvtxq”

“Fmo,v nvfnuv.movusmu,”v.sxvcxtnf.ucmux ,v“auvem.v.xrxfvtnfus.v.afix,
kyu----”

“Esovem.vusa.?v a vAvfnuvpnrxvusxx?”vsxvafuxcbn.x q

“Ox.,vox.;veappvonyvpa.uxfvunvusxvesnpxv.unco?vMs----”

Sxvafuxccybux vsxcqv“Usa.va.vfnvbpmixvdncv.yisvinfdx..anfqvPmuxc,vMffx;
Avimffnuvpa.uxfvfneq”

“Ms,v.xxvsnevsxvkpxx .,vWau,vmf v.nvinp q”

.sxvsm vunyisx vusxvsmf vndvusxv xm vtmf,vmf vusxfvm.v.sxvfnuaix vusx
gpauuxcafgvmf vyf.umafx vkcmf v.sxv.sy  xcx vmuvusxvusnygsuvndvsnevtyis
tncxv xbpncmkpxvenyp vsmrxvkxxfvsxcv.auymuanfvsm vusxv.enc vcxmisx vusx
tmcwvdncvesaisv.sxvsm vpmuxpov.xxfvauveaxp x q

EsapxvMffxvem.vusy.vtntxfumcapovniiybax ,vsxcvintbmfanfvem.vbn..x..x 
eausvfxevmf vxfuacxpov addxcxfuvusnygsu.vusmfvusn.xvesaisvsm vpmuxpo
 a.uyckx vsatqvAfvsa.vpmuxvcxdpxiuanf.vinfixcfafgvsa.vdyuycxvusx
hyx.uanfvndvx.imbxvsm viyuvfnvbcntafxfuvdagycx,vdncvxrxfvusnygsvsx
tagsuvdncxrxcv.yiix..dyppovkmddpxvusxvnddaixc.vndvusxvpme,vfnfxvusx
px..vusa.v mcwvismbuxcvndvsa.vpadxvenyp v.yppovsa.vdmtxqvKyuvusx
entmf’.venc .vndvsa.vcx.xtkpmfixvunvusxv xm vtmfvsm vpadux vusx
sxmrax.uvndvusxvipny .vndv mcwfx..;vmf vafvusxv.yiixx afgvtxfump
appytafmuanf,vsxvdxpuvmvucmf.bncuvusmuvycgx vsatvunvattx amuxvmiuanfq
Sa.vtaf ,vdxcuapxvafvbpnu,vsm v xrxpnbx vmvinrxcvdncvsa.vdmtxqvSxv.me
usxvbm..afgvmemovndvsa.vnp vpadx,vmf ,vafvusxvucmf.auanf,vcxm vusx
bcnta.xvndvmvfxevnfx;vauvtagsuvkxvafvnk.iycauo,vkyuveausnyuvnkpnhyoq

Usxcxvem.vfnvuatxvunvkxv.bxfuvafvmygsuvkyuvusxvdycusxcmfixvndvsa.
 x.agf,vkyuvdac.uvsxvdxpuvusxvfxx vndvsa.vintbmfanf’.vm..ycmfixvnd
mk.npyuxv.xicxiovinfixcfafgvusxvucmgx oqvSa.vnefvdyuycxvtagsuvfnevkx
.ykzxiux vunv.nvtmfovraia..auy x.,vusmuvmv.xbmcmuanfvkxuexxfvsat.xpd
mf vMffxvtagsuvkxvafxraumkpxqvEsnvinyp vuxppvesmuvafdpyxfix.vtagsuvkx
kcnygsuvunvkxmcvybnfvsxcvoxmc.vsxfix?vUsxv.xmpvndv.xicxiovty.uvfxrxcvkx
kcnwxfq

“Mffx,”vsxv.ma ,vmkcybupo,v“usa.v xx vtmovkcafgvucnykpxvunvknusvndvy.q
ImfvAvcxpovybnfvusxxvmk.npyuxpovmf vdncxrxc,vafvesmuxrxcv.auymuanf
usnyvmcuvbpmix ,vesxusxcvmbmcuvdcntvtxvncveausvtx,vunvpxuvfnvesa.bxc
ndvtovfmtxvintxvdcntvusovpab.v.nvdmcvm.vusxvxrxfu.vndvusa.vfagsuvmcx
infixcfx ?vAvwfnevauva.vm.wafgvtyis,vkyuvAvsmrxvtncxvusmfvtovbxc.nfmp
.mdxuovmuvsxmcuqvAvimfvfnuvxjbpmafvunvusxxqvAvimfvnfpovatbpncx----”

“.unb,”v.sxvxjipmatx ,vbm..anfmuxpo,vm.vusnygsvusxv nykuvafvsxcvatbpax 
kovusxvhyx.uanfvsm viyuvsxcvunvusxvhyaiwqv“Esov.snyp vonyvm.w?”

“Kyuvexvwfnevfnu,”vsxvcx.ytx ,v“unvesmuvux.uvusovpnrx,vusovinf.umfio
tmovkxvbyuqvAv nvfnuv nykuvusxxvfncvusov.ucxfgusq”

“.movfnvtncx,”v.sxvmgmafvafuxccybux qv“Fnvbxc.ym.anf,vfnvbcnta.x.,vfn
uscxmu.,vfnvuncuycxv.smppvxrxcvbcxrmapvybnfvtxvunvpa.bvnfxv.oppmkpxvnd
usovfmtxvm.vinffxiux veausvusa.v xmusqvOnyvimfvucy.uvtxvafvusmuq”

“XrxfvusnygsvAv.snyp v axvun-tnccne?”vsxvm.wx q

“Ox.,”v.sxvmf.excx q

“Mf v.yisvmf.excvtagsuvkxvndvm rmfumgxvunvusxx?”

“Ox.,”vmgmafvimtxvusxvdactvcxbpoq

Sxcvm..ycmfixvem.vndvmvismcmiuxcvimpiypmux vunvbcx..vsatvdncemc vafvsa.
sm.uapovdnctypmux v.isxtxvndvinfixmptxfuq

“Avucy.uvonyvatbpaiaupo,”vsxv.ma ,v“mf vfnevonyvty.uvpn.xvfnvuatxvaf
dpagsuq”

“Mf vusxf?”vimtxvusxvhyaiwvafhyacoq

“Av.smppvgn,vunn,vkyuvauvty.uvkxvkovmv addxcxfuvemoqvOnyvwfnevusxvxjau.
dcntvusa.vumrxcfvxrxfvkxuuxcvusmfvAv nq”

“Ox.,vox.,”v.sxvcxuycfx ,v“usxv.umacemo,vsmppvmf vxrxcovnyuxcv nncq”

“Mf vusxvaff-omc ?”

“Ox.,vmf vusxv.umppvesxcxvtovsnc.xva.v.umf afgq”

.sxvsyccax vafunvusxvmpinrxvmf vcxuycfx veausvmvimbxvuscnefvnrxcvsxc
.snyp xc.,vafvusxvsnn vndvesaisv.sxvem.vsm.uapovmccmfgafgvsxcvsmacq

“.xx,”v.sxv.ma ,vbnafuafgvunemc .vusxvmccm.,v“usxvdappx v.m  pxvkmg.
mcxvusxcxqvOnyvty.uvkcafgvusxtveausvusxxqvMf vesxcxvmtvAvunvtxxuvusxx?”

“Muvusxvgfmcpx vnmw,”vsxvmf.excx ,v“mvsmpdvtapxvdcntvsxcxvmuvusxvbnafu
esxcxvusxvcnm vuycf.v nefemc vunvusxvpauupxvkca gxqvOnyveappvemauvdnc
txvusxcxq”

“Kyuvesov nvonyvfnuvgnveausvtx?”

“Avea.svunvsa xvusxvicatx,”vsxvesa.bxcx ,vmf vm.v.sxvpnnwx vafhyacafgpo
muvsat,vsxvm  x ,v“Fmo,v nvfnuvm.wvsneq”

Mf veausvusx.xvenc .vsxvimyuany.povyfknpux vmf vnbxfx vusxv nncvea x
xfnygsvunvm tauvndvsxcvxjauqvUsxvsmppvpmtb.vsm vkxxfvxjuafgya.sx q

“Auva.vrxcov mcw,”vsxvesa.bxcx vm.vusnygsvsx.aumuafgvmuvusxvusnygsuvnd
sxcv xbmcuycxvmpnfxq

“Avnfpovdxmcvdncvusov.mdxuo,”v.sxv.ma ,vkcmrxpoq

“Smrxvfnvdxmc.vndvusmu,”vsxvcxuycfx ,v“sm.uxf,vexvsmrxvfnvuatxvun
.bmcxq”

Fnvdycusxcvenc .vexcxv.bnwxf,vkyuvsyccax povxtkcmiafgvxmisvnusxcvm.
usnygsvoxmc.vaf.uxm vndvtafyux.vem.vunvkxvusxacvuxctvndv.xbmcmuanf,v.sx
 a.mbbxmcx vafunvusxv mcwfx..q

Sxvipn.x vusxv nncvmf vknpux vauvmgmafqvUsxfvsxvwfxpuvkx.a xvusxv xm q
Sa.vsmf .vucxtkpx vafv.bauxvndvusxv xuxctafmuanfveausvesaisvsxv.xu
sat.xpdvunvmiintbpa.svsa.vbcnzxiuqvUsxvxjiauxtxfu,vmbbcxsxf.anfvnd
 a.inrxco,vmf vusxvsnccncvndvusxv.ixfx,vmptn.uvyffxcrx vsat;vkyuvsx
inrxcx vsa.vxox.veausvnfxvndvsa.vsmf .vdncvmvtntxfu,v.snnwvnddvusx
dxxpafgvndvexmwfx..,vmf vusxfvtnrx vusxvkn ovunvnfxv.a x,vunvipxmcvau
ndvusxvbnnpvndvkpnn qvSxvyfkyuunfx vusxvkyddv nykpxuvndvusxvincb.x,vmf 
 cxevauvnddqvFxjuvsxv.ucabbx vauvndvusxvzxcwaf,vkxpuvmf v.imkkmc ,vusxf
usxv.snx.,vsn.xvmf vucyfw.vmf v.sacuqvMvfmwx vkn ovpmovkxdncxvsatvyf xc
usxvdpaiwxcafgvpagsuvndvusxvimf px.qvSxmrovdnnu.uxb.vafvmfvm znafafg
cnntv.umcupx vsat,vmf vsxvgpmfix vmuvnfxvndvusxvincfxc.vkx.a xvusx
gcxmuvisatfxovm.vusnygsvxjbxiuafgvmvdnctvunvintxvdncusqvKyuvattx amuxpo
usxv.nycixvndvusxvfna.xvkximtxvmbbmcxfu,vmf vusxvisncy.vndvmvkmiismfmp
.nfgvzmccx vsatveausvau.vyfdaufx..:

vvvv“NvdncvmvknepvndvdmuvImfmco,
vvvvvCaisvBmpxctn,v.bmcwpafgv.sxcco,
vvvvv.ntxvfxiumc.vxp.xvdcntvZyfn’.v maco,
vvvvvNvusx.xv cmygsu.venyp vtmwxvy.vtxccoq”

Usa.v.nfgvndvZnsfvPappo,vnfxvesaisvsxvsm v.yfgvtmfovuatx.veausvcanuny.
intbmfanf.,vinyp vfnuvkyuvimy.xvsatvunvm  ,vafvusxvtntxfumcovcxpmjmuanf
mddnc x :

vvvvMf vadvusxvumb.uxcv nx.vfnuvkcafg
vvvvUsxv cmygsu.vdncvesaisvony’cxvipmtncafg,
vvvvIntxv cmafveausvtxvusxvkauuxcvknep
vvvvAv cafwvmuvbm..afgvndvmv.nypq

Usxovexcxvpafx.vbcnrnwx vsmpdvafvzx.uvsmpdvafvxmcfx.u;vmf vmgmaf
m.vhyaxufx..vbcxrmapx ,vsxvcxpmb.x vafunvsa.vbcxrany.vinf auanfvnd
bcndnyf vtxpmfisnpoqvSa.vum.wvem.vkyuvsmpdvintbpxux ;vsxvyfkyiwpx vsa.
nefv.enc vkxpu,vmf vsa.vdafgxc.,vesaisvsm vmgmafvkxgyfvunvucxtkpx,vpxu
usxv.imkkmc vdmppvipmuuxcafgvmuvsa.vdxxuqvSxv.snnwvsat.xpdvm.vusnygs
sa.vkn ovexcxvusxvyfcypovaf.ucytxfuvndvmvbcntbuafgvmf vattnrmkpxvtaf q
Advusa.vmiuanfvsm vmfovcx.ypuvesmuxrxcvauv a vfnuvbcxrxfuvsa.vsmf .
dcntvecxfisafgv.xrxcmpvkyuunf.vdcntvusxvdcnfuvndvsa.v.imcpxuv nykpxu,
m.vsxv.ucabbx vauvnddqv.uappvsxvbcnixx x vafvsa.vum.wq

Nfxvkovnfxvsa.vcaisvkyuvcnygs-y.x vrx.utxfu.vexcxvuscnefvndd,vyfuap
usxvparafgvem.vm.vusxv xm qvUsxvencwvem.vfnevkcafgafgvusxvimptvesais
mddnc x v.bxx vunvsa.vtnrxtxfu.,v.nvusmuvafvmfvafuxcrmpvsxvsm v cx..x 
usxvincb.xvafvsa.vgmctxfu.,vpxmrafgvauvzy.uvm.vauvsm vdmppxfvnfvusx
dpnncqvSxvfxjuvcxucxmux vunvusxvmpinrxvmf vem.sx vsat.xpdvipxmcvnd
kpnn q

Usxvkyddvinmuvem.v.umafx vmf v.bnuux vkovusxvpadx-iyccxfuvndvusxv xm 
tmfqvSxvim.uvauvunvnfxv.a xqvUsxvcx.uvndvusxvgmctxfu.vexcxvdcxxvndvmfo
ucmix.vndvusxvimum.ucnbsxqvAfvusx.xvsxv cx..x vsat.xpd;vkyiwpx vusx
kxpuvmcnyf vsa.vema.u;vbaiwx vybvusxvpnfgvtyc xcny.-pnnwafgvkpm xvnd
Dxccxcmvmf v.sxmusx vusxv.mtxvafvau.v.imkkmc vmgmaf.uvsa.vbyddx vybbxc
sn.xqvDcntvmvsnnwvybnfvusxvempp,vafvusxvmpinrx,vsxvunnwvmvpnfgv mcw
ipnmwveausvesauxv.apwvpafafgvmf v.aprxcvkyiwpxvmuvusxvinppmcqvUsa.vsx
uscxevnrxcvsa.v.snyp xc.v.nvusmuvusxvmk.xfixvndvmvinmuvncv nykpxuvem.
fnuvbxcixbuakpxq

Usxvbmbxc.vdcntvsa.vnefvbniwxu.,veausvsa.vfmtxvecauuxfvybnfv.xrxcmp
ndvusxt,vsxvsm v cnbbx vfxmcvnfxvndvusxvnyu-.ucxuisx vsmf .vybnfvusx
imcbxuqvUsxcxv.xxtx vfnvbn..akapauovdncvusxvkn ovunvkxvkycax vyf xcvmfo
fmtxvkyuvusmuvndvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexqvSxvcxm zy.ux vusxvta.dauuafgvsmu,
xjuafgya.sx vusxvimf px.,vnbxfx vusxv nnc,vmf vipn.afgvauvmduxcvsat,
.uxbbx vafunvusxvsmppq

Usxvnp vpadxvsm vipn.x qv.nvdmcvm.vusxvencp v.snyp vwfnevusxvdac.u
m rxfuycny.vbapnuvybnfvusxvnixmfvndvXfgpa.svkpmfwvrxc.xv[fnuxv17],vusx
tagsuovTmcpnex,vem.vmtnfgvusxvattncumpv xm q




USXvMBBCXSXF.ANFvNDvMFFXq

vvvv_Em.vusmuvusxvdmixvusmuvpmyfisx vmvusny.mf v.sab._
vvvv_Mf vkycfuvusxvunbpx..vunexc.vndvApayt?_

vvvv--_Dmy.uy.,vkovTmcpnex,v.ixfxvjarq_

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv_Esov.sxva.vmvbxmcp_
vvvv_Esn.xvbcaixvsmusvpmyfisx vmknrxvmvusny.mf v.sab._
vvvv_Mf vuycfx vicnefx vwafg.vunvtxcismfu.q_

vvvv--_Ucnapy.vmf vIcx..a m,vaa,v2q_


Xagsuxxfvoxmc.vkxdncxvusxv muxvdajx vdncvusxvkxgaffafgvndvusa.
fmccmuarx,vmv mygsuxcvndvTmfyxpvIcn..dnc ,vmp xctmfvmf vtxcixc,vem.
kncfvafvusxvunefvndvImfuxckycoqvUsa.visap vem.visca.uxfx vMffx,vmf ,vm.
usxv.npxvndd.bcafgvndvusxvsny.xvmf vnfpovintbmfanfvndvusxvdmusxc,vesn.x
eadxvsm v.nnfvmduxcvznafx vusxv.apxfuvtmzncauo,vsxcvexpdmcxvkximtxvsa.
isaxdvinfixcfqvMuv.ajuxxfvoxmc.vndvmgxv.sxvsm v xrxpnbx vafunvmvgacpvnd
.yisvkxmyuovusmuvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnex,v.nfvndvusxvipxcwvndv“.uqvTmcax.”
ndvImfuxckyco,vmvgcm ymuxvndvImtkca gx,vmf vcx.a xfuvndvPnf nf,vsm 
dmppxfv x.bxcmuxpovafvpnrxveausvsxcqvAuvem.v ycafgvmvuxtbncmcovra.auvun
sa.vfmuarxvunefvusmuvusa.vniiyccx q

Exppvmyusxfuaimux v.uncax.vndvTmcpnex’.vdarxvoxmc.vndv a..abmuanfvaf
Pnf nf,vmduxcvusxvuxctafmuanfvndvsa.v.isnpmc.sabvmuvImtkca gx,vimy.x 
TmfyxpvIcn..dnc vunvpnnwveausv a.dmrncvybnfvsa.vmuuxfuanf.qvUsxcxvem.
usxvismbuxcvafvesaisvsxvdagycx vm.vmvinttnfvbpmoxcvndvafuxcpy x.,
nc,vafvnusxcvenc .,vm.vmvrmgcmfuvmiunc,vdnctafgvbmcuvndvusxvyfecauuxf
kangcmbsovndvusxv.yaunc;vmf vusxvdmusxcvndvusxvtma xfvinyp vfnuvdncgxu
usxvmiinyfuvndvTmcpnex’.vsmrafgvkcnwxfv“sa.vpxgvafvnfxvpxe v.ixfx,vesxf
afvsa.vxmcpovmgx,”vm.vem.vxjbcx..x v.ntxvuatxvpmuxcvkovmvtmpagfmfu
csot.uxcq[19]

Usa.vpmuuxcvcxbncuvsm vkxxfvipxmcpov a.bcnrx ,vkyuvauvsm vcma.x vm
bcxzy aixvesaisvinyp vfnuvkxvnrxcuycfx qvUsxfvmgmaf,vIcn..dnc vem.
mv xrnyuvKcnefa.u,vmf vauvem.vunnvexppvwfnefvunvm tauvndv nykuvusmu
Tmcpnexvem.vmfvmrnex vdcxxusafwxcqvSm vsxvfnuvecauuxfvafvnfxvndvsa.
bpmo.:

vvvv“Avinyfuvcxpaganfvkyuvmvisap a.svuno,
vvvvvMf vsnp vusxcxva.vfnvicatxvkyuvagfncmfix”?[20]

Advmvtmfv a vfnuvxfuxcumafv.yisvnbafanf.vsat.xpdvsxvenyp vfnuvmppne
usxtvunvkxvtnyusx vkovmfov.bxmwxcvkxdncxvmfvm..xtkpmgx,vusnygsu
Icn..dnc qvAuvem.vucyxvusmuvsxvsm vecauuxfvbm..mgx.vusmuvgpnex veaus
usxvdxcrncvndvsa.venc.sabvndvusxvMpp-icxmuafgv.nypvndvusxvYfarxc.x,
kyuvusa.v a vfnuvbcxrxfuvsatvdcntvmkzycafgvusxvUcafauoqvUsxcxvexcx
.y.baianf.vusmuvsxvsm vinttauux vusa.vxiipx.am.uaimpvicatxq

Icn..dnc vem.vfnuvdmtapamcveausvTmcpnex’.vencw.,vkyuvsxvsm vsxmc vusx
ipxcwvndv“.uqvTmcax.”vxfusy.am.uaimppovcxbxmuvusxvpafx.vecauuxfvkovsa.
 a.uafgya.sx v.nf:

vvvv“Nycv.nyp.,vesn.xvdmiypuax.vimfvintbcxsxf 
vvvvvUsxvenf xcny.vmcisauxiuycxvndvusxvencp ,
vvvvvMf vtxm.ycxvxrxcovemf xcafgvbpmfxu’.vinyc.x,
vvvvv.uappvipatkafgvmduxcvwfnepx gxvafdafaux,
vvvvvMf vmpemo.vtnrafgvm.vusxvcx.upx..v.bsxcx.,
vvvvvEappvy.vunvexmcvnyc.xprx.,vmf vfxrxcvcx.u,
vvvvvYfuapvexvcxmisvusxvcabx.uvdcyauvndvmppq”

Mf vmuvusxacvcxiaumpvsx,vIcn..dnc ,vsm vfn  x vmbbcnrmp,vmf vusxfv.snnw
sa.vsxm vm.vsxvusnygsuvndvusxvxuxcfmpvdacx.vmpcxm ovbcxbmcx vdncvusx
accxrxcxfuvonyfgvtmfqvUsxvbcx aiux vdmtxvndvusxvpmuuxcvsm vfnvexagsu
afvusxvnusxcv.a xvndvusxv.impx.vsxp vkovusxvfnf-intbcnta.afgvKcnefa.u
[fnuxv30]q

Muvpxfgusvtmuuxc.vcxmisx v.yisvmvica.a.vusmuvafv1592,vusxvmp xctmf
 xuxctafx vusmuvsa.v mygsuxcv.snyp vkxvbpmix vyf xcvtncxv.ucaiu
.ycrxappmfixvusmfvsxvem.vimbmkpxvndvtmafumafafgqvAfvinf.a xcafgvusx
tmuuxcvsa.vusnygsu.vsm vuycfx vafvusxv acxiuanfvndvsa.v.a.uxc’.vsny.x
afvPnf nfqvUsxvismfix.vexcxvdmacvdncvusxvipn.xvinfdafxtxfuvusxcxvndvusx
tma xfvyfuapvuatxv.snyp vsmrxvencfvmemovusxvatmgxvndvsxcvpnrxcqvDnc
usxvtntxfu,vusxvBcnux.umfuvmiuymppovea.sx vdncvusxvcx.uncmuanfvndvusx
 a..nprx vfyffxcax.qvPawxvusxvZxevndvTmpum,vesnvsm vbpmix vsa.v mygsuxc
eausafvusxvempp.vndvmvbcanco,vusxv.uadd-fxiwx vKcnefa.uvinyp vsmrx
.tnusxcx vsa.vcxpagany.vbcxzy aix.vesxfvusxvafuxcx.u.vpoafgvfxjuvunvsa.
sxmcuvexcxvmuv.umwxqvKyuvsmpdvmvixfuycovsm vxpmb.x v.afixvusxv.a.uxc.
ndvusxvinfrxfu.,veausvnfpovusxacvipnusx.vybnfvusxacvkmiw.,vsm vkxxf
cy xpovdncix vafunv.xiypmcvpadx,vmf vusxacvmkn x.vinfda.imux vkovusx
icnefq

Usxv.a.uxcvndvIcn..dnc vem.vusxveadxvndvCaismc vKmtxqvParafg
isap px..,v.sxvsm vpnfgv.afixvbpxm x vdncvusxvm nbuanfvndvsxcvfaxix,
kyuvIcn..dnc vsm vuycfx vmv xmdvxmcvunemc vmppv.yisvxfucxmuax.qvSxc
sntxvem.vmv“dmacxv exppafg”vmta v.bmiany.vmf vemppx vgcnyf .,vusx
kxhyx.uvndvsxcvdmusxcqvM.v.sxvem.vmventmfvndvm rmfix vx yimuanfvdnc
usxvuatx.,vmf vmv.ucaiuv a.iabpafmcamf,vauvem.vfnvenf xcvusmuvTmfyxp
Icn..dnc vuycfx vunemc vsxcvafvesmuvsxv xxtx vem.vsa.vxjucxtauoq
Eausnyuvfnuaixvgarxfvsa.v mygsuxcvndvusxacv x.uafmuanfvncvsa.
afuxfuanf.,vusxvmp xctmfv.umcux veausvsxcvnfvusxvznycfxovunemc vusx
gcxmuvtxucnbnpa.q

Usxovucmrxpx vkovusxvemovndv xbudnc ,vmf vwfneafgv n .tmfvafuatmuxpo
dcntvmfvxmcpov mo,vusxov.umox vdncv.xrxcmpv mo.vmuvusxvGnp xfvSaf q
Kxdncxvusxacv.nznycfvmuvusxvpmuuxcvbpmixvsm vxf x ,vTmcpnexvsm 
sxmc vndvusxacvbcx.xfixvusxcxvmf vdncuseausvmbbxmcx vmuvusxvumrxcfq
Mv.unctovafuxcraxevunnwvbpmixvkxuexxfvusxvdmusxcvmf vusxv.yaunc;vm
ta.yf xc.umf afgvmcn.x,vmf vmvkauuxcvhymccxpvdnppnex vkxuexxfvusx
pnrxc.,vmf vmbbmcxfupovusxvtxxuafgvem.vkyuvmfvxba.n xvafvusxvznycfxoq

Mffxvem.v.nnfvmduxcemc vcxixarx vafunvusxvsny.xvndvTa.ucx..vKmtx,
esxcxv.uy ax.vexcxvkxgyfvmf vm..a yny.povtmafumafx qvMfovuxmc.vesais
.sxvtagsuvsmrxv.sx vnrxcvesmuv.sxv.ybbn.x vem.vusxvuxctafmuanfvndvusx
mddmacveausvTmcpnex,vexcxv.nnfvdnppnex vkovmvinf auanfvndvtaf vgarafg
xra xfixvndvau.vdcxx ntvdcntvcxgcxuvmf vtxpmfisnpo,vkovipmcauovnd
inyfuxfmfixqvKyuvusa.vbxmixdypvinf auanfvndvtaf vem.vtncxvafvusxvfmuycx
ndvmvcxdpxiuanfvndvusxvfxe,vmf ,vmuvdac.u,vbpxm.mfuv.yccnyf afg.qvUsx
xjuxfuvunvesaisvsxcvmddxiuanfvsm vkxintxvafrnprx vem.vfnuvmuvusmuvuatx
wfnefvunvsxc.xpdqvAuvcxhyacx vmfnusxcvcxrnpyuanfvndvusxvwmpxa n.inbxvnd
sxcvpadxvunv.snevusxvinfucm.uafgvbaiuycx.vndvpagsuvmf vgpnnt,vucmix vko
sxcvdac.uvpnrxvafvafxddmixmkpxvinpnc.qvUsa.vcxrnpyuanfvem.vfnuvunvkx
pnfgv xpmox qvAuvcxhyacx vmfnusxc’.v xrnuanf;vusxvbmpafgvndvusxvdacxvnd
muucmiuanfvmf vusxv.xinf vm rxfuvndvTmcpnexq

Mffxvsm vfnuvkxxfvesnppovcx.ucaiux vunvusxvgcnyf .veausafvusxvempp.
ndvusxvcx.a xfixvndvKmtx;vkyuvybnfvmppvsxcv xbmcuycx.vusxcxdcntv.sx
em.vmiintbmfax vkovusxvemuisdypvta.ucx..qvYbnfvnfxvndvusx.xvniim.anf.
usxovkximtxv.xbmcmux vdcntvxmisvnusxcvkovusxvemrx.vndvmvgcxmuvicne 
cy.safgvuscnygsvDxfisycisv.ucxxuqvAuvem.vmfvaf.yccxiuanfvcma.x vkovusx
mbbcxfuaix.vndvusxviauovmgmaf.uvusxvmpaxfvencwafgtxf;vmf vmpusnygs
fxausxcvcanuny.vfncv x.ucyiuarxvmuvusxvbnafuvesxcxvusxvonyfgxcventmf
kximtxvpn.uvdcntvusxvnp xc,vauvem.v.yddaiaxfupovuscxmuxfafgvunvimy.x
usxvipn.afgvmf vkmccaim afgvndvmppv.snb.vmf vsny.x.vmpnfgvusmuvmfiaxfu
usncnygsdmcxqvMffxvkximtxvxjucaimux vdcntvusxvtnkvuscnygsvusxvxddncu.
ndvmvonyfgvtmf,vesnvbcnrx vunvkxvDcmfia.vDcmlxcqvSxvsm vfnuaix vsxc
ybnfvmvbcxrany.vniim.anfqvSxvsm vusxvgcmixvndvmvinycuaxcvmf vsa.
mbbmcxpvem.vafvwxxbafgveausvsa.vmbbmcxfuvcmfwq

Sxcvkxmyuovsm vdpm.sx vybnfvsatvmf vdajx vsa.vmuuxfuanfqvNfvsa.vbmcu,
auvem.vpnrxvmuvdac.uv.agsuqvYbnfvsxcvbmcu,v.sxvem.vmuucmiux vko
sa.v a.uafgya.sx vmbbxmcmfix,vmf vra.akpovmddxiux vkovsa.vattx amux
bcnux.umuanf.vndvmddxiuanfqvYfdncuyfmuxpovdncvknus,vm.vusxv.xhyxp
bcnrx ,vsxvx.incux vsxcvunvsxcvsntxq

Dcxhyxfuvniim.anf.vdncvtxxuafg.vkxuexxfvusxvuenvdnppnex ,v x.bauxvusx
ragapmfixvndvusxvmyfu,vmf vgcm ymppovusxvcx.ucmafu.vndvsntxvpadxvkximtx
acw.ntxvkxonf vusxvpatauvndvxf ycmfixqvUsxvafuxcx.uvndvusxvgacpvaf
sxcvm tacxcvaficxm.x vafvpawxvbcnbncuanf,vmf vsx,vmuvmfvxmcpovbxcan 
ndvusxacvmihymafumfix,v a.inrxcx vusmuvsa.vdxxpafg.vunemc vsxcvexcx
dnyf x vybnfv.ntxusafgvtncxvusmfvuxtbncmcovbm..anfqvEausvmppvusxvmc nc
ndvsa.vatbxuyny.vfmuycxvsxvbcxrmapx vybnfvsxcvunvmiixbuvsa.vsmf vaf
tmccamgx;vmf vusxv.mdxgymc .vesaisvTmfyxpvIcn..dnc vsm vxcxiux vunvwxxb
sa.v mygsuxcvdmfiovdcxx,vyfuapvsxvtagsuvmccmfgxvmv.yaumkpxvtmccamgx,
ucxtkpx vmuvusxvm..mypuvmf vusxfvdxppvunvbaxix.qvAfvinfda xfixvusmu
usxvInyfuvenyp vdypdappvsa.vbcnta.xvndvtmccamgx,vusxvgacpvdpx vdcnt
usxvsntxvndvKmtxvpxmrafgvfnvipyxvdcntvesaisvunvm.ixcumafvusxvimy.xvnd
sxcvdpagsuvncvusxvbpmixvndvsxcvinfixmptxfuqv.sxvem.vtmccax vunvDcmfia.
Dcmlxcvmuv.uqvBxuxc’.vIsycisvnfvIncfsappq

.y.baianf.vexcxvkovIcn..dnc v acxiux vmgmaf.uvTmcpnex,vdncvsxvwfxe
fnusafgvndvusxvfxev.yaunc,vmf vmpusnygsvsxvem.vhyaxupov.sm nex vnf
.xrxcmpvniim.anf.,vusxvdcyaupx..vcx.ypuvsm vfnuvoxuvkxxfv.yddaiaxfuvun
.mua.dovusxvdmusxcvusmuvTmcpnexvem.vfnuvsnp afgvusxvgacpvafv.ntxv.xiycx
sa afg-bpmixqvMuvImfuxckycovmf vxp.xesxcxvTmcpnexvsm vkxxfvyfmkpx
unvpxmcfvmfousafgvinfixcfafgvusxvgacpv.afixvsxcv xbmcuycxvdcntvsxc
dmusxc’.vsny.xqvFnuvxrxfvmvcytncvndvsxcvtmccamgxvsm vcxmisx vsa.vxmc.,
mf vtncxvusmfvmvoxmcvsm vbm..x v.afixvusxacvpm.uvtxxuafgvesxf,vkx.a x
usxv xm vkn ovndvusxvInyfu,v.sxvunp vsatvndvauq

Usa.vtmccamgxvsm vbcnrx vunvkxvmfvyfsmbbovnfx,vbmcuamppov yxvunvusx
xjix..arxvmf vyfemccmfux vzxmpny.ovndvsxcvsy.kmf qv ycafgvusxvdxe
tnfus.vndvusxacvtmccax vpadx,vusxovsm vemf xcx vuscnygsvrmcany.
hymcuxc.vndvPnf nfvmf vau.vraiafauo,vmf vmuvpxfgusvsm vcxmisx vusx
Gnp xfvSaf vmvdxev mo.vbcancvunvusxvxrxfudypvfagsuvndvZyfxvusxvdac.u,
1593q

SxcxvDcmlxcv.nznycfx vesapxvtmwafgvmccmfgxtxfu.vdncvpxmrafgveausvsa.
eadxvdncvusxvinfuafxfuqvMvrx..xpvusxfvpmovmuvusxvesmcdvndv xbudnc vybnf
esaisvsxv x.agfx vunvtmwxvusxvrnomgxqvMgmaf.uvusa.vinfuxtbpmux vtnrx
usxveadxvsm vcxtnf.ucmux veausv.yisvragncvmf vbxc.a.uxfiovusmuv x.baux
sxcvbcnux.umuanf.vunvusxvxddxiuvusmuvsxcvnkzxiuanf.vmcn.xvdcntvmv cxm 
ndvxfuxcafgvmfvyfwfnefvencp ,vmf vmv x.acxvunvkxintxvcxinfiapx veaus
sxcvdmusxc,vusxvInyfuvkximtxv.y.baiany.vusmuv.sxvsm vbpnuux vunv x.xcu
satvncvmuvpxm.uvunvusemcuvsa.vbpmf.q

Auvem.v.sncupovmduxcvnfxvndvusxvtn.uvranpxfuv.ixfx.vkxuexxfvusxt
usmuvMffxv.mevUmkkmc vafvusxvsmpp,vm.vcxpmux ,vmf vsxmc vsa.vexpintx
mffnyfixtxfuvusmuvusxvnfxvesntv.sxvkxpaxrx vsm vbm..x vdncxrxcvnyuvnd
sxcvpadxvem.vfnuvnfpovmfjany.vunv.xxvsxc,vkyuvem.veausafvimppqvYbnf
usmuv.y  xfvmf vyfxjbxiux vinttyfaimuanf,vadv.sxvsm vsm vuatxvun
inf.a xcv.sxvtagsuvsmrxvdnctypmux vmv addxcxfuvmf.exc,vkyuveausvusx
cxtxtkcmfix.vesaisvusxvtxfuanfvndvTmcpnex’.vfmtxvmemwxfx ,vsxcvsxmcu
cy.sx vunvsxcvpab.,vmf vmuvusxvaf.umfuv.sxvimygsuvmvgpatb.xvndvDcmlxc,
.sxvgmrxvxjbcx..anfvunvsxcvpnfgafgqvAuvem.vpawxvmfvnyuicovndvnfxvaf
 a.ucx..,vkyuvdnyf x vybnfvfnva xmvusmuvuscnygsvsxcvnp vpnrxcvpmo
 xparxcmfixq

M.vmpcxm ov.umux vDcmlxcvsm vmiia xfumppovsxmc vusxvdxevenc .v.sxvsm 
yuuxcx ,vmf vauvem.vsa.vmiuanf.vcx.ypuafgvdcntvsa.v.y.baianf.vndvm
infuxtbpmux vxpnbxtxfuvusmuvkcnygsuvmknyuvusxvucmgx ovmuvusxvumrxcfq
Eausvusa.v agcx..anf,vxjbpmfmuncovndvusxvxrxfu.vpxm afgvybvunvusx
ucmgx ovndvusmuvfagsu,vexveappvfnevcxuycfvunvusxvbnafuvesxcxvusxv nnc
em.vipn.x vybnfvusxvcxucxmuvndvMffxq

Usxvsmppvafunvesaisvusxventmfvxfuxcx ,vpagsux ,vm.vauvem.vtntxfumcapo,
kovusxvcmo.vdcntvusxvcnntvdmix vkovusxvimcrx vbmfxp.,vkximtxvkpmiwvm.
fagsuvm.v.sxvsxmc vusxv nncv.syuvkxsaf vsxcqv.sxvdnyf vusxvkmpy.ucm x,
by.sx vsxcvsmf vmpnfgvau.v.tnnusvunbvmf vmuvpxfgusvcxmisx vusxvsxm 
ndvusxv.umac.qvXrxfvusxf,vm.vsxcvxox.v.umcx vafunvusxvpnexcv xbus.,
fnvmtxpancmuanfvndvusxv mcwfx..vmbbxmcx qv.uxbvkov.uxbv.sxv x.ixf x ,
icn..afgvusxvta  pxvpmf afg,v.uappvsnp afgvunvusxvkmpy.ucm xqv.sxvsm 
cxmisx vusxvdnnuvmf v.unn vusxcxvdncvusxvtntxfuvucxtkpafgvnrxcvusnygsu.
ndvusxv.ixfxvdcntvesaisv.sxvsm vzy.uvdpx vmf vmbbcxsxf.arxvndvbcx.xfu
xrapqvUsxvemovem.vwfnefvunvsxcvm.vipxmcpovm.vmvdmusxc’.vsny.xvun
isap cxfqv.ucmagsuvmsxm vpx vusxvsmppveausnyuvmvuycfvunvusxvfmccnev nnc
afunvusxvaff-omc qvSxcvsmf vdxppvdcntvusxvkmpy.ucm x,vkyuvm.vauv a v.n
auvem.vimygsuvkovmfnusxcvsmf ,vmf v.sxvdxpuvkyfgpafgvdafgxc.vcyfvmicn..
sxcvdmixqvAfvrmafv.sxvmuuxtbux vunvinfucnpvsxcvuxccnc,vkyuvusxvkcmaf,
mpcxm ovnrxcumjx ,vexfuvunvbaxix.vpawxvmvgpm..vpxuvdmppvnfvtmckpx
bmrxtxfu.qv.sxvyuuxcx vnfxv.icxmtvmf vdmafux q

Mvhyaxu,vpawxvusmuvndvmvinyfucovisycisvmuvsagsvfnnfvnfvexxwv mo.vsm 
kxxfvdncv.ntxvuatxvbxcrm afgvusxvumb-cnntvndvusxvGnp xfvSaf qvUsxvbmcuo
muvusxvixfuxcvumkpxvsm v.imuuxcx ;vusxvpmf pnc vcykkafgvsa.vxox.,vsm 
 a.mbbxmcx vuscnygsvusxv nncvmknrxvesaisvsyfgvusxvicmiwx vbmafuafgvnd
usxvsn.uvafvcx vinmuvmf vdmixvkxunwxfafgvexpintx;vusxvpafxvndv ximfuxc.
mf vkxllpafgvgpm..x.vnfvusxv.sxpd,vyf xcvusxvpnfgvtaccncvkxsaf vusx
kmc,vmbbxmcx vcxm ovdncvusxv y.uvndvmuvpxm.uvnfxvhyaxuvsmpd-fagsuvun
.xuupxvybnfvau;vesapxvnyu.ucxuisx vnfvuenvismac.,veausvsa.v cne.ovsxm 
pxmfafgvnfvusxvmctvndvnfxvndvusxt,vpmovusxvumb.uxc,vusxvnfpovsytmf
niiybmfuvndvusxvcnntqvUsxvimuvsm vicmepx vyf xcvsa.vmct,vmf ,vafvsa.
smpdv.pxxb,vsxvem.vtxismfaimppov.ucnwafgvsxcqvNyuvndvusa.vinf auanfvsx
em.vmcny.x vkov.umcupafgv.nyf .vafvusxvsmppq

Sxvhyaiwpovcn.xvunvsa.vdxxuvmf vcy.sx vunvusxv nncqvUsxvpagsuvdxppvdypp
ybnfvuenvbxc.nf.,vmventmfvpoafgvyfinf.iany.vmuvusxvkm.xvndvusxv.umac.,
mf vmv cyfwxfvmiuncvpxmfafgvnrxcvsxcqvUsxvpmuuxcvxjsakaux vmv.uybxdax 
inyfuxfmfix,vxausxcvm.vusxvcx.ypuvndvmvpagsuvkxafgvdpm.sx v.nv.y  xfpo
ybnfvsat,vncvdcntvusxv a.inrxcovndvesmuvpmovmuvsa.vdxxuqvSxvsm vsmc po
cxmpalx vusmuvsxvsm vipm.bx vmvsmf vncvdytkpx vmvdmix,vncvmuvpxm.u
fnusafgvtncxvusmfvusmuvndv.ntxv.xcrafgventmfvndvusxvbpmix,vmf vesxfvsx
.mevmventmfveausvdxmuycx.vndvmptn.uvucmf.ixf xfuvkxmyuo,vmf vndvmuuacx
dauvdncvmvpm ovndvcmfw,vpoafgvmuvsa.vdxxu,vsxvinexcx vafvusxvpagsuvm.
nfxvtagsuvesxfvmbbcxsxf x vafvusxvintta..anfvndvmvsxafny.vicatxq

“Lnyf .,”vxjipmatx vusxvumb.uxc,v“esmu’.vusa.v.fmcpafgvmknyu?”

“Gnn vGn ,vtmf,va.v.sxvwappx ?”vxjipmatx vusxvnusxcvpxmfafgvnrxcvmf 
muuxtbuafgvunvcma.xvusxvcxiytkxfuvkn ovmuvsa.vdxxuq

Kpnn vem.vdpneafgvdcntvmvgm.sviyuvafvusxventmf’.vsxm vkovusxv.smcb
x gxvndvusxv.umacqvUsxvuenvtxfvbaiwx vsxcvybvmf vimccax vsxcvafun
usxvumb-cnnt,vesxcxvusxovbpmix vsxcvafvnfxvndvusxvea x.uvismac.qvUsx
umb.uxcvcxingfalx vsxcvm.vusxvpm ovesnvsm vmccarx vusxcxvmvdxev mo.
bcxrany.poveausvusxvInyfu,vmf vpnnwx v.y.baiany.povmuvusxvmiunc;vkyu,
eausnyuvm.wafgvmfovhyx.uanf.vndvusxvpmuuxc,vsxvkxgmfvkmusafgvsxc
dmixvafvinp vemuxcvmf vkaf afgvmvipnusvmcnyf vsxcvsxm vunv.unbvusx
dpnevndvkpnn qvAu.viyccxfuv mcwpov.ucxmwx vusxvtm..vndvgnp xfvsmac
esais,vsmrafgvkxxfvpakxcmux vdcntvusxvinfdafxtxfuvndvusxvsnn ,vdxpp
 a.sxrxpx vmcnyf vusxvsagsvesauxvcydd,vafvesaisvusxvpnexcvbmcuvnd
sxcvdmixvem.vinfixmpx ,vmf vybnfvusxvbyddx v.snyp xc.vuxctafmuafg
usxvuagsu,v.pm.sx v.pxxrx.vndvrmca-inpncx v.apwqvSxcvsnn x vimbxvnd
.sneovdmkcaivpmovybnfvusxvdpnncqvSxcvdyppvgnefvndvkpyxv.apwveausvdcnfu
xtkcna xcx vdcntvusxvinppmcv nefvusxvpnfgvbnafux v nykpxuvmf v cx..
dcnfu,vintdncumkpovdappx vusxvismacqvUsxvpmtb.v acxiupovnrxcsxm vsm 
kxxfvxjuafgya.sx ,vmf vauvem.vusxvpagsuvdcntvusxv.uappvkpmlafgvimf px.
muvusxvmfgpxvndvusxvisatfxovusmuvdpmcx vybnfvsxcvbmppa vdmixq

.xrxcmpvtafyux.vsm vbm..x vmf vmppvmuuxtbu.vmuvsxcvcx.uncmuanfvsm 
kxxfvyfmrmapafgqvMv.xcany.vxjbcx..anfvsm vgmusxcx vnfvusxvdmixvnd
usxvumb.uxc,vmf vusxvmiuncvpnnwx vunvsmrxvkxxfv.smwxfvafunv.nkcaxuoq
.y  xfpovusxvuenvtxfvsxmc vpagsuvdnnu.uxb.vafvusxvsmppemoqvUsxv nncvsm 
kxxfvpxduvnbxfqvUsxovpnnwx vunemc vau,vmf vmuvusmuvtntxfuvusxvdagycxvnd
mvtmfvbm..x vmicn..vusxv.xmtvndvpagsuvmf vem.vattx amuxpov.emppnex vko
usxv mcwfx..vusmuvpmovnfvusxvdycusxcvx gxqvM.vusxvpagsuv.ucyiwvsatvsx
sm vpnnwx vunemc .vau.v.nycix,vkyuvadvsxvcxingfalx vmfovtxtkxcvndvusx
gcnybvncvcxmpalx vusxvismcmiuxcvndvusxv.ixfxvesaisvsxvsm vtntxfumcapo
 a.uyckx ,vauv a vfnuvimy.xvsatvunvbmy.xqvUsxv.nyf vndvusxvipn.afgvnd
usxv nncvafunvusxvaff-omc vattx amuxpovmduxcemc .vxisnx vuscnygsvusx
smppq

“Usmuvem.vsxcvsy.kmf ,vusxvInyfu,”vesa.bxcx vusxvmiunc,vpnnwafgveaus
mtmlxtxfuvmuvsa.vintbmfanfq

“OnyvmcxvecnfgqvAuvem.vTmcpnex,”vcxtmcwx vusxvumb.uxcq

“Fmo,”v.ma vusxvmiunc,v“Tmcpnexvem.vfnuv.nvmuuacx qvAuva.vsxcvsy.kmf q
Onyvsm vkxuuxcvdnppnevsatveausvenc vndvsxcvinf auanfq”

“AdvAvusnygsuvonyvexcxvcagsu,”vcxuycfx vusxvumb.uxcveausvinf.a xcmkpx
dxxpafg,v“Avenyp vfnuv.uacvmv.uxb,vdncvAvmtvfnuvmfjany.vunv.xcrxvusx
cyddamfqvUsxvkpnevsxvdxppx vtxveausvem.vfnfxvunvtovpawafgqvAvenyp v n
mfousafgvdncvusxvpm o,vkyuvesmuv.sxvfxx .va.vesmuvsxva.vfnev nafgqvEx
eappv.unbvsat,vesnxrxcvsxva.,vm.vsxvcxuycf.q”




MvBCXIMCANY.vXJA.UXFIXq

vvvv_Tagsuvdac.uvtm xvwafg.,vmf vpme.vexcxvusxfvtn.uv.ycx_
vvvv_Esxfvpawxvusxv cmin’.vusxovexcxvecauvafvkpnn q_

vvvv--_ZxevndvTmpum,va,v1q_

vvvvvvvv_Usxvkpnn ovknnwvndvpme,_
vvvv_Onyv.smppvonyc.xpdvcxm ,vafvusxvkauuxcvpxuuxc,_
vvvv_Mduxcvonycvnefv.xf.xq_

vvvv--_Nusxppn,va,v3q_


Nfvusxvfagsuvndvusxvtyc xcvafvusxvnp v xbudnc vumrxcfvusxvtmfvesnvem.
unvbcndauvtn.uvdcntvusxvdmp.xv.sm ne.vuscnefvkovusxvicatxvmf vau.
infixmptxfuvem.vmuvusxvKnmc’.vSxm vafvPnf nfqvUsa.vtmfvem.vEappamt
.smwx.bxcxqvEausnyuvsa.vrnpauanfvmf vyfwfnefvunvsat.xpdvusxvicnefvnd
attncumpauovem.vkxafgv.xuvybnfvsa.vkcne.qvZy.uvm.vyfinf.iany.povtnrx 
usxvsmf .vusmuvbpmix vauvusxcxqvSm vusxvbpmiafgvndvauvkxxfv x.agfx ;
sm vusxvbxc.nfvesnvsm.vencfvauvmppvusx.xvixfuycax.vdxpuvau.vbcx.xfix
mf vinrxux vau,vbn..akpovmppvipny vusmuvsm.v.afixvnk.iycx vsa.vuaupx
tagsuvsmrxvkxxfvcxtnrx ;vkyuvusxvmiunc.vexcxvnfpovbybbxu.vafvusx
smf .vndvusxvkpaf vgn  x..vndvTa.ismfixqvUsxvraumpvdpme.vcxtmaf,vmf 
smrxvkxxfvbnafux vnyuvkovusxv.xmcisxc.qvUsxacvgxfyafxfx..vsm.vkxxf
 xtnf.ucmux ,vkyuvusxv.nycixvndvuaupxvsm.vkxxfvta.mbbcxsxf x qvUsx
dmp.adoafgvndvusxvcxinc vndvusxvicatxvmuv xbudnc vkxafgv a.inrxcx ,vusx
ucmiafgvndvusxvuaupxvuscnygsvmv xxbvismffxpvunvau.vucyxvdnyfumafvsxm 
a.vmvum.wvxm.ovndvmiintbpa.stxfuqvAuvpxm .vunvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexq

Eausv.smwx.bxcxvexcxvuenvnusxc.,vesn.xvparx.vexcxvaf.xbmcmkpo
afuxcenrxfveausvusmuvndvsa.vnefvmf veausvTmcpnex’.qvNfxvem.vGxncgx
Bxxpx,vusxv cmtmua.u,vusxvnusxcvem.vIsca.unbsxcvUmtencus,vusxvpmeoxcvnd
Gcmo’.vAffq

UsxvXm.uisxmbvumrxcf,vesapxvdcxhyxfupovusxvgmusxcafgvbpmixvdnc
cno.uxcxc.,vem.vmp.nvmvwfnefvcx.ncuvdncv.ucnppafgvbpmoxc.,
bmtbspxuxxc.,v cmtmua.u.vmf vnusxcvtxfvndvgxfay.vmf vmtkauanf,vesnvexcx
pnnwx vybnfveausv.y.baianfvkovmvgnrxcftxfuvusmuvatmgafx vgcxmuxcv mfgxc
dcntvmvta  pxvipm..veausvafuxppxiuvmf vmkapauovndvxjbcx..anfvusmfvdcnt
mvbnexcdypvfnkapauo,vncvmfvagfncmfuvtypuauy xvndv.xcd.q

Muvuatx.,vicne .vafvkmiismfmpamfvcanuvkycfuvnyuvusxvsnyc.vndvusxvfagsu;
mgmafvusxvbxmixvndvmvipna.uxcvbxcrm x vusxcx,vmf vdcntvusxvpnexcvkmo,
mf vsagsxcv nctxcveaf ne.vusxvpagsu.vndvencwxc.’vimf px.vgpxmtx q
Xm.uisxmbv.ucxxuvtagsuvcmuupxveausvuytkcap.,vimcu.vmf vsnc.x.’vsnnd.,
mf vusxvmacvkxv.smuuxcx vkovusxvicax.vndvin.umc vtnfgxc.,vunnuafgvnd
smyukno.,vncvusxvcafgafgvndvkxpptxf,v.uappvusxvusaiwvempp.vndvusx
Knmc’.vSxm vxfuaix veausafvusxtvusn.xvesnvencwx vnyuvusxacv xparxcmfix
afv.npaumcovxddncuvmf vtx aumuanfq

Usxvuscxxvtxfvexcxvafvmv.bmiany.vcnntvmuvusxvcxmcvincfxcvndvnfxvnd
usxvybbxcv.uncax.vndvusxvdmtny.vumrxcfqvNfxveaf nevnbxfafgvuscnygs
usxvusaiwv.unfxvempp,vdmix vusxvisycis-omc vndv.uqvTaismxp.veausvau.
 cnnbafgvucxx.,vau.vuxfmfu.vndvfxmcvuscxxvsyf cx voxmc.vndvkycamp,
mf vau.v.umuxpovx adaixvesxcxafvusxvda.stnfgxc.vmf vkyuisxc.vdcnt
fxmcv.snb.vmf v.umpp.vinfgcxgmux qvIpmtkxcafgvrafx.vcnnux vafvcais
.nap,vdcmtx vusa.v xxbvmf vfmccneveaf nevafvgcxxf;vmf vafvkcxxlo
snyc.v.xfuvunvusxvxmc.vndvaf exppxc.vmvcy.upxv.exxupov.yggx.uarxvnd
usxvdmcv a.umfuvenn .vndvWxfuvncv.yccxoqvAfvusxvemppvdmiafgvIcnnwx 
Pmfxvmfnusxcveaf nevnrxcpnnwx vmvucmrxpx vemov.nvfmccnevusmuvsmf .
nyu.ucxuisx vdcntvdmiafgveaf ne.vnfvxausxcv.a xvinyp vipm.bvxmis
nusxcqvNfvusxvbmrxtxfuvkxpne,vmvdnnuvbm..xcvtagsuv.hyxxlxvkovmvin.umc 
tnfgxc’.vimcu,vkyuvuenvimcu.vmkcxm.uvinyp vfnuvbm..qvBcnzxiuafg
bpmudnct.,vyf xcvdcnfuafgv nnc.veausvfmccnev.umac.v x.ixf afgvunvusx
.ucxxu,vmf vknmc .vuscy.uvnyuvdcntveaf ne.vesxcxnfvsyfgvpafxfv coafg,
ncvknjx vbpmfu.,vm..a.ux vafvnk.iycafgvusxvpagsuq

Usxvcnntvem.vusxvparafgvmbmcutxfuvndvGxncgxvBxxpx,vmf vdncv.xrxcmp
oxmc.v ycafgvsa.v.xbmcmuanfvdcntvsa.veadx,vsm vkxxfvusxvcxucxmuvndvusmu
gxfay.,vesxcxvafvafuxcrmp.vkxuexxfvtm v a..abmuanf.vsxvsm vecauuxfv“Usx
Dmtny.vIscnfaipxvSa.uncovndvWafgvX emc vusxvDac.uq”vUsxvaffmuxvum.ux
ndvusa.vaf ara ymp,vm.v a.bpmox vafvusxvcaisfx..vndvusxvatmgxcovusmu
ismcmiuxcalx vsa.vbpmo.,vinyp vfnuvkyuvcxrxmpvau.xpdvafvusxvxjuxcfmp
.yccnyf afg.vnrxcvesaisvsxvsm vinfucnpqvSa.vbyc.xvsm vfxrxcvkxxf
.yddaiaxfupov a.uxf x vdncvsatvunvinfucmiuvdncvpyjycany.vmbmcutxfu.,vnc
muvpxm.uv a.uxf x vpnfgvxfnygsvdncvsatvunvbmy.xvafvusxveap vcxrxpvesais
mpemo.vdnppnex vipn.xvnfvusxvsxxp.vndvusxvcxixabuvndvtnfxovdncvmvbpmo,
unvinf.a xcvmfovhyx.uanfvndvintdncuvafvusxvfxmcvdyuycx,vinf.xhyxfupo
knusvafv.xm.nf.vndvbnrxcuovmf vtntxfu.vndvmddpyxfixvusa.vnfxvcnntvmu
usxvKnmc’.vSxm vem.vsa.vbxctmfxfuvsxm hymcuxc.q

Usxvkpmiwxfx vixapafgvcxtmafx vm.vsxvsm vdnyf vau;vusxvgcnyf vencwvnd
 afgovemppvnfvmppv.a x.vsm vfnuvkxxfvismfgx vxjixbuvkovusxvmcuaipx.
syfgvmgmaf.uvau,vmf vusx.xvexcxvm.vrmcax vm.vmvbcn agmpvsmf vinyp 
gmusxcqvMvtmgfadaixfuvbaxixvndvumbx.ucovdcntvusxvpnnt.vndvDpmf xc.,
kxmcafgvybnfvau.vkpyxvgcnyf encwvusxvcx vdagycxvndvmvsnc.xvmf vicnefx 
ca xc,vinrxcx vnfxvxfuacxv.a xvndvusxvcnntqvAuvem.v.ma vunvsmrxvkxxf
usxvgaduvndvHyxxfvXpalmkxus,vdncvesnt,vafv1584,vBxxpxvsm vecauuxfvusx
intx ovndv“UsxvMccmagftxfuvndvBmca.,”vmf vsm vkxxfvkx.unex vmduxcvsxc
sxmcafgvndvusxvbnxu’.vdmfiovdncvusxvsmfgafgvm.vsxvsm vdac.uv.xxfvauvaf
usxvkmfhyxuafgvsny.xvndvusxvcnompvbmpmixvmuvEsauxsmppqvNfvpnev.umf .
kxdncxvauvexcxvuenvkpmiwvGcxxwvrm.x.vndvgcxmuvrmpyxq

Mgmaf.uvmfnusxcvemppvexcxvuenvpnfgvsmpkmc .,vicn..x vzy.uvkxpnevusxac
sxm .,vesn.xvkcagsuv.uxxpvdpm.sx vkmiwvusxvpagsuvndvusxvpmtbqvUsxvxf .
ndvusxacvbnpx.vunyisx vusxvdpnnc,vmf vkxuexxfvusxtvem.vmvpnfgvFnctmf
smykxcwvndvucxppa.x vbpmuxvmf vmvwaux-.smbx v.saxp vm.vcy.uovm.v.aj
ixfuycax.vinyp vtmwxvusxtqvUsxvisatfxovbpmixvem.vfmccne,v xxbvmf 
kpmiwqvGcxmuvkcm..vdacx ng.vem.vmppvusmuvauvinfumafx vmuvusmuv.xm.nfq
Mknrxvauvusxv.sxpd,vdnctx vkovusxvcxix afgvndvusxvisatfxo,vem.vicne x 
eausvkcnflxvmf vesauxvtmckpxv.umuyxuux.,vmtnfgvesais,vnfxvndvusxvhyxxf
nrxcunbbx vusxvnusxc.vndvtncxvmfiaxfuv.iypbuycxq

Usxvpnevacnfvkx .uxm vndvcy xvtmfydmiuycx,vmptn.uvinfixmpx vafvusx
cxix..vdnctx vkovusxvbcnzxiuafgvisatfxo,vem.vxra xfupovmvdajuycxqvNd
usxv.mtxvimuxgncovexcxvusxvismac.vmf vusxvumkpxqvNrxcvusxvpmuuxcvmvpmtb
 x.agfx vunvma vmv.isnpmcvafvsa.vpyiykcmuanf.,vkycfx v.uxm apovdcntvm
kcmiwxuvafvusxvemppq

Knnw.vmf vbmbxc.vexcxv.imuuxcx vnfvusa.vumkpxveausvafwsncfvmf vhyapp.,
mf vmv.incxvndvrnpytx.vnfvusxvyfimcbxux vdpnncqvMvinbovndvSntxc’.
Apam vpmovnbxf,veausvbcafux vbmgx.vunyisafgvusxvenn xfv.ycdmixvndvusx
umkpx,vmf vau.vxtkn..x vinrxcv a.bpmox qvKx.a x.vusa.vexcxvuenvrnpytx.
ndvIaixcn,vmfvXfgpa.svucmf.pmuanfvndvusxvucmgx ax.vndv.xfxim,vmf vnd
Znim.uxvndvXycaba x.,vndvusxvx auanfvndv1577qvSmpdvmv nlxfvnusxcvGcxxw
mf vPmuafvipm..ai.,vafvusxvin.upovkaf afg.vndvZnsfvCxofx.,vexcxvsxmbx 
.nvusmuvusxvpagsuvndvusxvpmtbv a.bpmox vusxtvunvm rmfumgxqvAfvtxmfxc
kaf afg.,vSnpaf.sx ’.vIscnfaipx.vpmovnbxfvnfvusxvdpnncveausvusxvTaccnc
ndvTmga.ucmux.vbapx vybnfvau,vmf vafvusxv.mtxvsxmbvexcxv.xrxcmpvnusxc
rnpytx.vndvinuxtbncmcov cmtmua.u.qvKyf px.vndvtmfy.icabuv cmtm.vexcxvnf
nfxvxf vndvusxvumkpx,vmf v.imuuxcx vbmbxc.vkncxvnfvusxacvdmix.vusxvencw
ndvusxvtm.uxcvndvusxv xfq

Auvem.vpmuxvmuvfagsu,vmf vusxvuscxxvdcaxf .,vdncv.yisvusxovexcx,vsm 
kxxfvungxusxcvafvusxvcnntvdncv.xrxcmpvsnyc.qvUsxvbpmovybnfvesaisvBxxpx
em.vusxfvxfgmgx ,vem.v x.agfx vkovusxvecauxcvdncvbxcdnctmfixvkovPnc 
Bxtkcnwx’.vmiunc.vndvesaisv.smwx.bxcxvem.vusxfvmvtxtkxcq[21]vSxvsm 
kxxfvcxm afgvauvdncvusxacvmbbcxiamuanfvmf v.yggx.uanf,vmf vfne,vsmrafg
dafa.sx ,vusxovexcxvinfrxc.afgvybnfvnusxcvunbai.qvUnkmiinv.tnwxvdcnt
usxvbabxvndvUmtencusvcn.xvafvipny .,vmf vafvmvea xvmct-ismacvmgmaf.u
usxvumbx.uco,v.smwx.bxcx,vmp.nv.tnwafg,vem.vpa.uxfafgvunvusxvpmeoxc’.
cxtmcw.q

“Usxvicatx,”v.ma vsx,v“a.vkpm.bsxtovmf vfnuvmbn.um.oq”

“Snev nvonyv a.uafgya.svusxt?”vafhyacx vBxxpxq

“Usxvpm.uva.vcxfnyfiafgvnfx’.vcxpaganfvmduxcvsmrafgvbcndx..x vau;vusx
nusxcva.vcxrapafgvusxvDmusxc,v.nf,vncvSnpovGsn.uq”

“Mox,vmf vusxvicatxvndvkpm.bsxtovsxvsm.vinttauux q”

“Fnvhyx.uanfvndvusmuq”

“Smrxvonyvmvinbovndvusxvbmbxc?”vm.wx v.smwx.bxcx,vm  cx..afgvBxxpxq

“Ox.,vusxv.mtxvusmuvem.v.xfuvunvusxvHyxxfq”v[Fnuxv31q]

Sxv cxevdcntvsa.vaffxcvbniwxuvmvdnp x vbmbxc,vmf vsnp afgvauv.nvusmu
usxvpagsuv.ucyiwvdyppvybnfvauvsxvcxm :v“Usxvdac.uvkxgaffofgxvnd
cxpaganfvem.vnfpovunvwxxbvtxfvafvmexq”

“Usxcxvtmovkxv.ntxvucyusvafvusmu,”vafuxccybux vUmtencusq

“Kyuvemau,”vinfuafyx vBxxpx,v“sxcxva.vusxv.xfuxfixvusmuv.uaiw.vmf 
bxcsmb.vgarx.vgcnyf vdncvusxvismcgx,v‘advusxvZxe.vmtnfgvesntvsxvem.
kncfv a vicyiadovsatvusxovkx.uvwfxevsatvmf vesxfixvsxvimtxq’”

“Ucypovusmuva.vkpm.bsxtny.,”vcxtmcwx vUmtencus,v“kyuvAv nvfnuvkxpaxrx
usmuvsxvecnuxvauqv nusvauvbcndx..vnfvau.vdmixvunvkxvsa.?”

“Fn,vusxovmcxv.atbpovismcgx.vtm xvmgmaf.uvsatvkovCaismc vKmtx,vmf vsx
a.vmfvnk.iycxvbxc.nf;vkyuvusxvHyxxfvsmusvinf.a xcx vauv.xcany.povmf vm
emccmfuvsmusvkxxfva..yx vkovnfxvndvusxvzy.uaix.vdncvsa.vmccx.uq”

“Esn.x,vKmtx’.?”

“Fn,vTmcpnex’.q”

“Esmuva.vusxvbyfa.stxfuvybnfvinfraiuanf?”vm.wx v.smwx.bxcxq

“Onyvfxx vfnuvm  vusxvenc .v‘ybnfvinfraiuanf,’vdncvusmuvdnppnexusvmf
mccx.uvm.v.ycxpovm.vfagsuvdnppnexusv moqvAuva.v xipmcx vkovpmevun
kxvdafxvmf vatbca.nftxfu,vmf vnusxcvafdmtny.vincbncmpvbyfa.stxfu,”
mf.excx vUmtencusq

“Ndvesmuvfmuycxva.v.yisvbyfa.stxfu?”

“.pauuafgvusxvfn.x;viyuuafgvnddvmfvxmc;vmv.xmuvafvusxvbappnco,vmf vusx
pawx,”vmf.excx vBxxpxvkxdncxvusxvpmeoxcvinyp v.bxmwq

“Usnyvwfnexusvusxvpme,vunn,vBxxpx,vpawxvmv.npaiauncqvSm.uvusnyvxrxc
kxxfvmv.uy xfuvmf vpn gx vmuvIpxtxfu’.vAff?”vm.wx vUmtencusveausvm
.tapxq

“Fmo,vkyuvafvnfxvbpmovAvsm vbyuvkpm.bsxtny.venc .vafvusxvtnyusvndvm
 a..npyuxvismcmiuxc,vmf ,vkxdncxvau.vbcx.xfumuanf,vusxv.mtxvem.vbnafux 
nyuvunvtxvkovusxvmiuncvesn.xvbmcuvauvem.vunvcxm vau,vmf vdncuseausvex
exfuvunvusxvUxtbpxvmf vusxcxvpxmcfx vusxv xdafauanfvndvusxvnddxf.xvmf 
usxvbxfmpuoq”

“Mf vnfvusa.vnbafanfvndvnfxvesnvsm.vcxm vfnvkxuuxcvpafx.vusmfvusn.xvun
kxvdnyf vafvZy.uafamfvncvPauupxunf,vmf vtm xvfnvbcndx..anf.vndvmkapauo
unvicauaia.x,vusnyvxjbycgmux vesmuvunvtxv.xxtx vusxvtn.uv.uaccafg
bm..mgx.vndvusxvbpmoqvEapuvusnyvpxuvusxvpagsuvndvusovuncisvkxvkpmfwxux 
.nvusmuvnfpovkpmiwv.tnwxvimfvcnppvdncus?vDaxvybnfvusxx,vtmf!”v.ma 
.smwx.bxcxveausvmfatmuanfq

“Onyvwfnevfnuvndvesmuvonyv.bxmw,”vxjipmatx vUmtencusqv“Usxvincbncmp
byfa.stxfuvtmovkxvtncxv.xrxcxvusmfvm.v xdafx vkovBxxpxqvSa.v xdafauanf
a.vinccxiu,vkyuvusxvzy gx.vsmrxvnduxfv.ucxuisx vusxvenc .vunvmvgcxmuxc
xjuxfuqvEsmuvadvusxov.mevdauvunvmbbpov.yisvafdmtny.vbyfa.stxfuvusmu
 xmusvenyp vfxix..mcapovcx.ypu?”

“Inyp vusxov nvusmu?”

“Mox,vmf vusxovsmrxqv xmusvdncvkpm.bsxtovtmwxusvnfxv.tapxvmuvusxvpme.
ndv cmin,vkyuv.yisvsmusvkxxfvmf vnfpovdnycvoxmc.v.afixq”

“Onyv.bxmwvndvWxuu,”vcxtmcwx vBxxpxq

“Ox.,vDcmfia.vWxuuq”

“Mf vesmuvndvsat?”vm.wx v.smwx.bxcxq

“Sxvem.vkycfu,”v.ma vUmtencus,v.npxtfpoq

“Muvusxv.umwx?”

“Ucyx,vmuvFnceaisvafvDxkcymco,v1589,vdncvhyx.uanfafgvusxv arafauovnd
Isca.u,vmf vgarafgvyuuxcmfixvunvnusxcvyfncusn njvraxe.q”[22]

“Nv amknpx!”vtyuuxcx vBxxpxq

“A.vusxcxvmfov.mdxuovafvmfovniiybmuanf?”vafhyacx v.smwx.bxcxq

“Expp,vusxcxva.vixcumafpovpauupxvafvonycvbcndx..anf,vtovgnn vdxppne,
yfpx..vonyvmcxvpaixf.x ,vncvxfcnppx q[23]vUsxvbxfmpuovndvkxafg
mbbcxsxf x vm.vmv.ucnppafgvbpmoxc,vncvm.vmvinttnfvmiuncvndvafuxcpy x.,
a.vbcnkmkpovwfnefvunvusxx,vmf vunvusxx,vunn,vBxxpxq”

“Ox.;vesabbafg,vmf vkycfafgveausvmvsnuvacnfvuscnygsvusxvgca.upxvnd
usxvcagsuvxmc,”[24]vafuxccybux vBxxpx,v“dncvAv.mevusxvpawxvbyfa.stxfu
m tafa.uxcx vunvXf xctnf,vesnva.vfneveausvSxf.pnexvmuvusxvCn.xq”[25]

“Mf ,”vinfuafyx vUmtencus,v“auva.vkximy.xvndvusa.vmiuvndvXpalmkxusvusmu
ony,v.smwx.bxcx,vmcxvxfcnppx vm.vmv.xcrmfuvndvPnc vBxtkcnwxq”

“Mv.nccovecxuisvonyvmcx,”vpmygsx vBxxpx,vpnnwafgvmuv.smwx.bxcx,v“.n
ta.xcmkpovinf.a xcx vusmuvafvnc xcvunvgmafvusxvbpmy au.vndvusxvbauvony
ty.uvmuumisvonyc.xpdvunvmvpaixf.x vintbmfoq”

“Mf vafvesmuvkxuuxcvinf auanfvmcxvony?”vm.wx vUmtencus,veausvmv.tapxq
“ n.uvusnyvfnuvwfnevusmuvafvusxvpmevmv cmtmua.uva.vipm..x veaus
rmgcmfu.?vUsmuvmfovpafxvndvesmuvony,vBxxpx,vecaux,vtmovkxvafuxcbcxux 
m.vkpm.bsxtovncvucxm.nf;vmf vusmuvm.vusxvzy gxvkxdncxvesntvonyvtmovkx
 cmggx vbm..x.vybnfvusxvtxmfafg,vdncixvncvxddxiuvndvusxvhyx.uanfmkpx
ecauafg,[26]vonyvmcxvracuymppov xbcarx vndvmvucampvkovzyco?vMf vybnf
esmuv.pxf xcvuscxm vonycvpakxcuovenyp vsmfg!vMox,vx’xfvonycvpadxq
Tncxnrxc,vusxvzy gxvbntbny.pov xipmcx.vusmuvsxvpnnw.vafunvusxv.bacau
af.uxm vndvusxvpxuuxc,vmf vusy.vkxuexxfvusxvpafx.vsxvcxm .vmfvmrnempvnd
bnbxcovmf vbcnfnyfix.vonyvmvBmba.uq”

“Mox,vusxfvusxv.xfuxfixvintx.v‘UnvusxvUnexc,’”vxjipmatx v.smwx.bxcxq

“Usxvcmu.’v yfgxnf!”vsxv.ma ,v.npxtfpoq

“Mf va.vfnuvusxvbany.vbnxu,vCnkxcuv.nyusexpp,vusxcxvfnevnfvusxv.mtx
ismcgx,vbnbxco?”[27]vm.wx vBxxpxq

“Ucyx,”v.ma v.smwx.bxcxq

“Mf vsmusvsxvfnu,”vinfuafyx vBxxpx,v“afvimfwxcafgvpmfgya.stxfuvecauuxf:

vvvv“‘Avnduxfvpnnwvybnfvtovdmix
vvvvvTn.uvygpo,vgca.po,vkmcxvmf vusaf;
vvvvvAvnduxfvraxevusxvsnppnevbpmix
vvvvvEsxcxvxox.vmf vfn.xvsm v.ntxuatxvkxxf;
vvvvvAv.xxvusxvknfx.vmicn..vusmuvpax,
vvvvvOxuvpauupxvusafwvusmuvAvty.uv axq’”

“A.vmfousafgvtncxvemfuafgvunvcx.ucmafvnfxvafvusxvdpnyca.svndvnfx’.vbxf?”

“Fxjuvexv.smppvsxmcvndvbcalx.vdncv.uyba auo,”vxzmiypmux v.smwx.bxcx,
cxbpmiafgvsa.vbabxvkxuexxfvsa.vpab.,vdcntvesxcxvauvsm vkxxfveaus cmef
 ycafgvusxvafuxcrmpvndvpxgmpv a.iy..anfqv“Tovenf xcva.,”vsxvinfuafyx ,
“usmuvonyvxrxcvecauxvmvpafxvkxonf vGn v.mrxvusxvHyxxfvmf v mtfvusx
BnbxqvBcma.xvGn ,vusmuvtovuxtbncmcovimppafgva.vpaixf.x ,vmf vusmuvfnu
oxuvsmrxvAvkxxfvuxtbux vafunvdaxp .vesxcxvbaudmpp.vpaxvinfixmpx ,vmf 
mppvxp.xva.vnbxfvunvusxvkpmlafgv.woq”v[Fnuxv29q]

“Exppv.ma ,vdcaxf vEapp,vkyuvpxuvnfixvusxvsnfax vbcma.xvdncvisap cxfvnd
usovkcmafvtxpuvafunvusovkxafg,vmf vfnvuscxmuvncv cxm vndvkn apovappvimf
wxxbvusxxvesnppovdcntvusxvbxctmfxfuvxjbcx..anfvndvusovusnygsu.qvMf vfne
auva.vtovparxpasnn ,”vcxuycfx vBxxpxq

“Dncvnfxvndvusovimppafgvauvenyp vkxv.mdxcvunvparxvafvnk.iycauo,”
cxtmcwx vUmtencusq

“Ox.,vm.vusnygsv xm ,”vusxv cmtmua.uvmf.excx vafvmvesa.bxc,vm.vusnygs
usxcxvexcxvnusxc.vesnvtagsuvnrxcsxmcvsa.venc .q

Mvwfniwv.nyf x vmuvusxv nncqvUsxvuenvra.aunc.vpnnwx vmuvBxxpx
afhyacafgpoqvSxv.ma v“Intxvaf,”vkyuvusxv nncv a vfnuvnbxf,vmf vmgmaf
usxvwfniwv.nyf x q

“Usxvdxppneva.vpawxvmvkxggmcvdncvinafvesnvcxdy.x.vmvbyc.xveausnyu
pnnwafgvafunvau,”vcxtmcwx vBxxpx,vmca.afgvmf vgnafgvunvusxv nncq

“Tncxvpawxvmvpm ovesnvea.sx.vunvwfnevesnva.veausafvkxdncxvrxfuycafg,”
.ma v.smwx.bxcxv.agfadaimfupoq

Bxxpxvsm vnbxfx vusxv nncqvMvtmfv.unn vusxcxvafvusxvbm..mgxvmf vcma.x 
sa.vdafgxcvemcfafgpoqvBxxpxvbmy.x vafvusxvgcxxuafgvsxvem.vmknyuvun
yuuxc,vmf vusxf,vtnrafgvsa.vsxm v.pagsupovkmiwemc vafvgx.uycx,v.ma vaf
mvpnevrnaix:v“.smwx.bxcxvmf vUmtencusq”

“Mf vfnfxvnusxc?”vm.wx vusxvtmfq

“Fnfxq”

Sxv.uxbbx veausaf,vkyuv a vfnuv.xxtvunvfnuaixvBxxpx’.vxjuxf x vsmf q

“Pniwvusxv nnc,”vsxv.ma q

“Cagsu,”v.ma vBxxpx,v“usxvemccmfuva.vmpcxm ovnyuq”

“Esmu,v.nv.nnf?”vxjipmatx vusxvnusxc,vuscneafgvsa.vsmf vunvsa.vdmix,
esaisvgcxevgsm.upovm.vsxv.umcx vmuvsa.vdcaxf q

“Tmcpnex,”vxjipmatx v.smwx.bxcxvafvgcxxuafg,v“xrxfvfnevexvexcxvumpwafg
mknyuvonyq”

Usxvtmfvm  cx..x vinfuafyx ,vgmlafgv.bxxispx..povmuvBxxpx,vesnv.ma ,
“Exppv’uem.vfnvtncxvusmfvexvexcxvmbbcxsxf.arxvndvesxfvpm.uvexvtxuq”

“Onyvumpwvafvca  px.,”vgm.bx vusxvnusxc,v“’Ua.vnfpovuenvsnyc.v.afixvsa.
 xmusqvMvemccmfuvmpcxm ova..yx :vOnyvwfnevau?vTovGn !v nvAv cxmt?”

Bxxpxvfnev a.bpmox vmvhyx.uanfafgvdmix;v“Ca  px.;vuenvsnyc.v.afixvsa.
 xmus?”vsxvm.wx ,vmf vusxfvmduxcvmv.sncuvbmy.x,vinfuafyx :v“Avtxmfvusx
ismcgxvndvkpm.bsxtoqvUsmuvemccmfuva.vnyuqvNdvesmuv nvonyv.bxmw?”

Tmcpnex’.vra.mgxvipxmcx vunv.ntxvxjuxfuq

“Ms!vAvyf xc.umf ,”vsxvtyctycx q

Sxvcxtnrx vsa.vsmu,vmf v.mfwvm.vusnygsvafvxjsmy.uanfvafunvmviy.sanfx 
ismacvipn.xvkxdncxvusxvisatfxoqvUmtencusvmf v.smwx.bxcxvexcxvmpcxm o
yb,vmf vusxvuscxxvsm vgmusxcx vkxdncxvsatq

.smwx.bxcxv.bnwxv.otbmusalafgpo:v“Usxovmcxvfnuvpawxpovunv.xmcisvafvusa.
hymcuxcqvUn-tnccnevAveappvafuxcix xveausvusxvHyxxf,vdncv.sxvsm.vmpcxm o
garxfvtxvcxingfauanf--”

“Mf vusxvnddxf.xva.vnfpovndvmfvxiipx.am.uaimpvfmuycx,”vinfuafyx 
Umtencusq

“Afvusxvxox.vndvusxvpmevauva.vinf.a xcx vtyc xc,”v.ma vTmcpnexq

Usxvuscxxvpnnwx vhyx.uanfafgpovmuvxmisvnusxc,vesapxvTmcpnex,vuscneafg
nddvusxvpm.uvucmixvndvhympt,vinfuafyx :

“Avsmrxvzy.uvdpx vdcntvusxvbpmixvndvau.vintta..anf,vmf vusovdac.u
yuuxcmfix,vBxxpx,vyffxcrx vtxqvAvwappx vusxvtmfvmf vsxvpax.v xm vmu
usxvGnp xfvSaf vafv xbudnc qvAuvem.vafv yxpvdncix vybnfvtxqvDcmfia.
Dcmlxc,vusxvInyfu,vusxovimppvsatqvAv.movusmuvsxvpax.v xm ,vkyuvnusxc.
eappv.movusmuvauva.vAqvOnyvpnnwvmuvtxvm.vusnygsvusxcxvexcxvtncxvca  px.
mf vusxcxvmcxqvOnyv.xxvusxvipnusx.vAvexmc?vExpp,vusxovmcxvfnfxvnd
tafxqvTafxvmcxvmuvusxvGnp xfvSaf vmf vnfvusxv xm qvOnyv.xxvauvem.vusa.
emoqvSxvimtxvybnfvtxvesxfvAvem.veausvusxventmf,vsa.veadx,vauv.xxt.q
Sxv xtmf x vusmuvAv cmevmf v xdxf vto.xpdqvAv a ,vmf vexpp,vmf vusxf
uscy.uvsntxqvSxvdxppqvSxcxvAvsmrxvintxqvEsmuvemova.vipxmc?”

“Mv yxp,”vxjipmatx v.smwx.bxcx,vm tacafgpo,v“mf vonyvwappx vsat?vKcmrn!”

“Esxcxafvpax.vusxvnddxf.x?”vafuxccybux vBxxpxq

“Onyv nvfnuvyf xc.umf ;vusxvintkmuvem.vafvsa.vmbmcutxfu.vesxcxvAvsm 
afucy x qvUsxcxvexcxvfnveaufx..x.v.mrxvsa.veadxqv.sxv.a x.veausvtx,vkyu
esmuvmvipny venyp vkxvim.uvybnfvtxvkxdncxvusxvInycu,veausvusxventmf
.exmcafgvafvtovdmrncvm.vmgmaf.uvusxv xm vsy.kmf ?vAv.movusmuv xmus
enyp vkxvusxvbxfmpuoq”

“Kyuvonyv.movusmuvonyv.ucabbx vusxv xm ,”v.ma vUmtencus,v“mf vesxusxc
auvem.vmvraf aiuarxvtyc xc,vmv yxp,vncv nfxvafv.xpdv xdxf.x,v.yisvdmiu
ty.uvexagsvsxmrapovmgmaf.uvusxxqvMcuvusnyvicmlo,vWau?vEsovusa.vgmck?vA
 nvfnuvyf xc.umf vauq”

Sxvsm vdafa.sx vsa.vhyx.uanf.veausvra.akpxvxjiauxtxfu,vmf veausvau
Tmcpnexvmcn.xq

“Onyvmcxvtovdcaxf .,”vsxv.ma ,v“usxvniim.anfvimpp.vdncv.umyfisvnfx.q
Intx,vAvfxx vusxvma vndvmppq”

Af.uafiuarxpovusxov cxevmknyuvusxvumkpxvm.vusnygsvipn.xfx..vkxgmu
infda xfixvmf v.ucxfgusqvUsxvpagsuv.snefvybnfvmvucyxvkcnusxcsnn vnd
.nyp.vyfaux vkovinttnfvafuxcx.u.vknusvdncvm rmfixtxfuvmf vbcx.xcrmuanfq
Bxxpxveausvipxmcvmf vusnygsudypvxox.,vmf vdmixv.uappv a.bpmoafg
enf xctxfu;v.smwx.bxcxveausvusxv.tnnus-.smrxfvra.mgxvndvmfvmiunc,vmf 
nbxf,vgxfxcny.vinyfuxfmfix;vUmtencusveausvipxmc-iyuvdxmuycx.,vinp vxox.
mf vkxmc x visafvmf vpab--mppv.muv.apxfuvm.vusxacvintbmfanfvrara po
fmccmux vusxvxrxfu.vndvusxvfagsuvmuvusxv xbudnc vumrxcfqvMuvau.vipn.x
sxvbmy.x ,vmf vusxfvafvusxvxf.yafgv.apxfixvcx.ytx :

“Usxvbm.uvsmusvxf x vafvmvgcmrxqvOnyvmppv.xxvusmuqvFnvkcnm vcnm vnd
usxvpadxvndvox.uxc mova.vnbxfvunvtxqvSxfixdncusv mcwfx..vmf vnk.iycauo
a.vtov.npxv.uncxqvMf vesxcxafvpax.v.npmixvdncv.yisvinfuafymfixvndvpadx?
Mox,”vmf vsa.vrnaixvcmfgveausvusxvafuxf.auovndvsa.vdxxpafg.,v“xrxfvm
parxpasnn va.v xkmccx vtxvyfpx..vmvtm.wvinfixmp.vtovencwafg.q”

Mgmafvdncvmfvafuxcrmpvfnvenc .vexcxv.bnwxfqvNyu.a xvusxvdngvsm vpadux 
mf vmvta fagsuvcmafvem.vdmppafgvnfvusxvcnndvmf vkxmuafgvmgmaf.uvusx
eaf ne.qvAu.vbmuuxcvbxcrm x vusxvcnntqvUsxvGcxxwvrm.x.v.xxtx vemauafg
unvkxvdappx ;vusxvcx vwafgvnfvusxvmccm.vmbbxmcx vpa.uxfafgvxjbxiumfupo
dncvenc .vndv xparxcmfix;vusxvsmpkxc .vgpauuxcx v xdamfupo,vm.vusnygs
cma.x vkovsmf .vcxm ovafv xdxf.xq




USXvBM..AFGvNDvUMKKMC q

vvvv_Av.xxvmfvmfgxpvsnrxc.vn’xcvusovsxm ,_
vvvv_Mf veausvmvrampvdyppvndvbcxiany.vgcmix,_
vvvv_Nddxc.vunvbnycvusxv.mtxvafunvusov.nypq_

vvvv--_Dmy.uy.,v.ixfxvjarq_

vvvv_Sa.vpadxvem.vgxfupx,vmf vusxvxpxtxfu._
vvvv_.nvtajx vafvsat,vusmuvFmuycxvtagsuv.umf vyb_
vvvv_Mf v.movunvmppvusxvencp ,v“Usa.vem.vmvtmf:”_

vvvv--_Zypay.vIæ.mc,vr,v5q_


UsxvGpnntvusmuvbxcrm x vusxvgcxmuviauov ycafgvusxvbcxrmpxfixvndvusx
bpmgyxvem.vmvdagycxvndvismfgafgv.alxvusmuvmuvuatx.vimtxveausvmvcy.s,
mf vmgmafvgcxevafunvbpmixvkx.a xvusxvsxmcus-.unfx,v.pnepovmf vmptn.u
atbxcixbuakpo,vmf vusxfvmuvpxfgusvm..ytx v.yisv cxm dypvbcnbncuanf.
usmuvusxvmddcagsux vemuisxc.vkycax vusxacv.m vdmix.vafvucxtkpafgvsmf .,
m.vadvunv cnefvusxvra.anfqvMvbmppvinrxcx vsatvdcntvsxm vunvdnnu,vmf 
sa.vdmixvem.vyf.xxf;vkyuvusxcxvem.vmv.y.baianfvusmuvauvem.vdpx.spx..,
mf vesxusxcvsxvimtxvunvusxvnbxfv.umppvncvipn.x v.snb,vkxdncxvncvmduxc,
usxvra.auvusxcxvndvusxvbpmgyx,vsa.vbcx.xfixvfytkx vusxvsmf .vndvunap,
mf vusxfvxausxcvdnp x vusxtvafvbcmoxc,vncv cnbbx vusxtvafv.unpa 
mbmusoqvSxvbxcrm x vmptn.uvxrxcov exppafg;vsxvem.vesxcxvusxvtncfafg
nca.nf.vmcn.xvafvisycisx.vmf vimusx cmp.;vsxvempwx vusxvnbxfv.ucxxu.
xrxfvafvusxv.yfpagsu;vsxv.muveausvusxvzy gxvybnfvusxvkxfis;vsxvwfxpu
eausvusxvkca xvmuvusxvmpumc,vmf vxrxfvesxcxvdyppviyb.vexcxvpadux 
sags,veausvfn .vaf aimuarxvndvgnn vsxmpusvmf vbxmix,vsxvimtxvmf vexfu
pawxvmvcx.upx..v.bacauq

M.vUmkkmc vmf vGorx.v.pnepovicn..x vusxv.ucxxuvdcntvusxvnddaixvndvusx
Zy.uaix,vmvimcuv xpmox vusxacv.uxb.vdncvmvtntxfuqvUsxacvkcxm.u.vexcx
mptn.uvmgmaf.uvau.vsxmrovesxxp.vm.vauvbm..x ,vmf vusxacvxox.vexcxvnf
mvpxrxpveausvusxvunbvndvau.vknj,vesaisvem.vdappx vmknrxvau.vx gx.q
Usxvznpuafgvndvusxv.unfx.v.snnwvusxvinfuxfu.v.nvusmuvusxvtmfvafvkpmiw
kx.a xvusxv carxc,vuscnygsvdxmcvndvpn.afgvbmcuvndvusxvpnm ,vwxbuvsa.
xox.vdajx vybnfvusxvcxmcvxf -knmc vndvusxvimcuq

“Ygs!”vxjipmatx vGorx.,v cmeafgvkmiwveausvmv.sy  xc,v“’Ua.vusxv xmus
imcuqv.xx,vusxovsmrxvbapx vusxtvafvpawxv xm vtyuunfq”

“Pnnwvmuvusmuv.uaddvkxggmcveausvdmppxfvisnb.vsmfgafgvnrxcvusxvesxxp,”
cxtmcwx vUmkkmc ,veausvdmixvecafwpafgvafvsa.v a.gy.uq

“Usxovmcxvafvunnvgcxmuvsm.uxvunvwxxbvusxtvbcnbxcpovinrxcx qvMf vusa.va.
usxvxmcpax.uvpnm vAvsmrxv.xxfvsyccax vuscnygsvusxv.ucxxu.q”

“ nf’uvusxovimccovmuvmppvuatx.?”vafhyacx vUmkkmc q

“Fmo,vnfpovmduxcv.yf nefvmf vzy.uvkxdncxv.yfybq”

“Usxvbpmgyxvty.uvkxvgcneafgvenc.x,”vcxtmcwx vUmkkmc ,vdncvusxvtntxfu
pnfgafgvdncvusxvdcx.s,v.exxuvmacvndvWxfu,vmf vsxmcuapovea.safgvusmuvsx
em.vnyuvndvusmuvdnggov.ucxxu,vesaisvsm v.y  xfpovgcnefvm.vtxpmfisnpovm.
mvisycis-omc vndvfxe-tm xvgcmrx.qvSxvmptn.uvdncgnuvunvpatb,vncvpxmf
sxmrapovnfvusxvinf.umkpxvm.vusxovcxmisx vusxvnbbn.auxvempwq

“Gn v.mrxvony,v.acqvAuva.vkcxmusafgvafvxrxcovemc vknusvfncusvmf v.nyus
ndvSnpkncf,vIsxmb.a xvmf vDxfisycis,vmf vm.vdmcvex.uvm.vGcmo’.vAffvmf 
UxtbpxvKmcqvCx vbmafuvsm.vgnfxvybvafvbcaix,vAvsxmc,vdncvfxmcpovxrxco
sny.xvnefxcvsm.vsm vunvkyov.ntxvunv mykvusxvicn..vnfvsa.v nncqvAv.me
nfxvtmfvdmppvnfvInpxtmfv.ucxxuvun- mo,vmf vafvpx..vusmfvmfvsnycvsxvem.
 xm vafvusxvmppxovesxcxvusxovsm vtnrx vsatqvNs,vtmf!vauvenyp vkxvexpp
dncvony,vadvonyvsm vfxrxcvrxfuycx vafvdcntvusxvdaxp .;vdncvAv.xxvusmu
onyvsmrxvusxvsxmpusdypvpnnwafgvdmixvmf vmacvndvmvinyfucotmfq”

“ nx.vnfxv axvhyaiwpo?”vm.wx vUmkkmc ,veausvmvhymrxcvafvsa.vrnaixq

“Unnvhyaiwpovunv.xf vxausxcvdncv niunc,vncvbcax.u,vafv.ntxvim.x.,”
cxbpax vGorx.q

“Mf va.vusxcxvfnvsxpb?”

“Pauupxvkxdncxvmf vfnfxvmduxcvusxvkpmiwv.bnu.vmbbxmcq”

“Mf v nvtmfov ax?”

“Usny.mf .q”

“Fxmcvsxcx?”vafhyacx vUmkkmc ,v.sy  xcafgvm.vsxvpnnwx vmuvusxvgpnnto
kyap afg.vmcnyf vsatq

“Fmo,vtn.upovafvusxv exppafg.vmf vuxfxtxfu.qvEausvnfxv xmusvafvusx
dmtapo,vonyvimfvinyfuvusmuvxrxcovtxtkxcveappvdnppneqvMs!vsxcxva.vusx
Eaf tappq”

Usxovuycfx vdcntvusxv.a xempwvunvtnyfuvusxv.uxb.vpxm afgvunvusxvumrxcfq
Usxvkyap afgvem.vmvhymafuv.ucyiuycxvkyapuvkovusxvZxe.vmuvpxm.uvuscxx
syf cx voxmc.vkxdncxqvNfixvmv.ofmgngyx,vfxjuvmv exppafgvmf vusxfvm
umrxcf,vauvsm ,v x.bauxvmppvusx.xvismfgx.vafvau.vy.x,vtmafumafx v.ntx
ndvusxvismcmiuxca.uai.vndvxmisqvPawxvmvtafa.uxc,vesnvsm vkxintxvm
.np axcvmf vusxfv x.xcux vdncv.ntxv.mdxcvkyuvpx..vsnfncmkpxvimppafg,vau
sm vcxumafx vmfvnyuemc vxjbcx..anfvndv.mfiuauovafvusxvfmccne,vbnafux 
pmfixu-eaf ne.vafvau.vdcnfuvmf vau.v.aj-inpytfx vbncuain;vesapx,vm.
xra xfixvndvau.vbm..mgxvuscnygsvmfvafuxctx amuxvbxcan ,vncaxpveaf ne.
zyuux vnyuvdcntvesmuvtagsuvkxv.xinf vmf vusac v.uncax.qvUsxvbmafuafg
ndvmveaf tapp,vsmfgafgvkxuexxfvusxvuenvta  pxvinpytf.vndvusxvbncuain,
bykpa.sx vusxvbcx.xfuvbycbn.x.vndvusxvbpmixveausvm.vpny vmvdpnyca.svm.
ucytbxu.vtagsuvmffnyfixq

Afunvesmuvem.vnfixvusxvaffxcvfmcusxjvndvusxv.ofmgngyx,vusxovbm..x qvM
.unfxvdpnncvem.vyf xcvdnnu,vesapxvmvpnevrmypux vixapafgvcn.xvnrxcsxm ,
au.vkm.xvkxafgv.ybbncux vkovmuumisx vinpytf.veausv xincmux vimbaump.
mf vxpmkncmuxpovimcrx vinckxp.qvSxcx,vesxcxv xrnyuvSxkcxe.vsm vnfix
bmy.x vunvmccmfgxvusxacvgmkmc afx.,vncv.umtbvusnygsu.vndvy.ycovdncvnfx
.sncuv.x..anfvdcntvusxacvtaf .vkxdncxvxfuxcafgvusxvkn ovndvusxvisycis,
usxv.micapxgany.vGxfuapxvsm v.xuvsa.v.fmcx.vndv x.ucyiuanfqvAuvsm 
kxintxvusxvumb-cnntvndvusxvumrxcfq

Fxmcvusxvdnnuvndvusxvcnn -.umac,vesaisvnfixvpx vunvusxvgmppxco,v.unn 
mvkcappamfupovpagsux vkmc,veausvmvcmfgxvndvkyuu.vndvTmpt.xo,vwxg.vnd
kxxcvmf v.miw,v xxbvafvusxvcxix..vkxsaf vau;vmf vnfvusxvfxmcv.sxprx.,
mgmaf.uvmvkm.umc vempp,vem.vmvgpauuxcafgvpafxvndv ximfuxc.,vtyg.vmf 
umfwmc .q

Usxvsxmrovcnyf vumkpx.vexcxvxfiacipx vkovtmfovbxc.nf.v cafwafgvyf xc
.y.bxf x vpmtb.,vmf v.xrxcmpvgcnyb.vndvtxfvexcxv.umf afgvsxcxvmf 
usxcxvnfvusxv.mf x vdpnncqvMvhyaxufx..,vxjixbuvdncvusxvpnevkyllvnd
infrxc.muanfvmf vmfvniim.anfmpvpmygs,vbxcrm x vusxvcnnt,vusy.v.bxmwafg
exppvdncvusxv.nkcaxuovndvusxvaftmux.vmf vusxvcx.bxiumkapauovndvusx
umrxcf;v.uappvusxvicne vem.vm.vtajx vm.vinyp vkxvdnyf vmfoesxcxvxjixbu
afvusxvta  pxvma.pxvndv.uqvBmyp’.qvUsxcx,vafvusxvfmrxvndvusmuvdmtny.
imusx cmp,v x aimux vunvbany.vy.x.,vafvusxvma.px.,vkxdncxvusxvmtkcax.,
mf vkx.a xvusxvdnfu,v ycafgvafuxcrmp.vkxuexxfv arafxv.xcraix,vsnc.xtxf,
y.ycxc.,viyu-uscnmu.,vkxggmc.,vkmcgmafxc.vndvmppvwaf .,v niunc.,
pmeoxc.vmf vfnkpxtxf,vbpax vusxacvmrnimuanf.,vsxp vusxacvtxxuafg.,
smuisx vusxacvinf.bacmiax.vmf v.xuupx vmiinyfu.q

Sxcxvusxcxvexcxvfnvkxggmc.,v.yisvkxafgvkmccx vxfucmfix;vkyuvusxac
umuuxc.vinyp vkxv.xxfvnfvusxvbncuainvesxfxrxcvusxv nncv.eyfgvnbxfq
Kyuvtxf,vafvmbbmcxpvdauvdncvfnkpxtxf,vempwx vafvmf vnyu;vnusxc.,veaus
usxvsmc xfx vra.mgx.vndvtxfvesnv cxmtuvinfuafymppovndvusxvgmppne.vmf 
.sy  xcx vmuvxrxcovdpm.svndvpagsuvmicn..vusxacvbmus.,v cmfwvmuvusxvkmc,
ncvgmusxcx vyf xcv.ntxvndvusxva.npmux vinpytf.q

Muvnfxvumkpxvem.vmvinyfucov.hyacxvafv yf-inpncx v.xcgxvinmu,veausvdypp
kxmc x vdmix,vkxf afgvnrxcvmvucxfisxcvdappx veausvmvsmpdv xrnycx 
bsxm.mfuqvKxdncxvsatvem.vsa.viauoviny.af,vafvrxprxuvimb,veausvm
pnrxpniwv.y.bxf x vdcntvyf xcvusxvgcxxfvcatv nefvmicn..vsa.vcyddpx 
inppmcqv xincmux veausvbnafux vty.umisan.vmf vdcmtx vafvbne xcx 
bxcaeagvmf vsagsvcydd,vsxvem.vuobaimpvndvusxv mf ovndvusxvbxcan q

Advusxvcme-knfx ,vyfgmafpovonyfgvtmf,veausvcxbxppmfuvdxmuycx.,vesn
tnfnbnpalx vusxvinfrxc.muanfvmuvmfnusxcvumkpx,vem.vfnuvKxfvZnf.nfv[fnux
33],vusxfvGorx.,vesnvbnafux vsatvnyuvunvUmkkmc ,vsm v.xpxiux v.ntxvnfx
esnvpnnwx vxfnygsvpawxvusmuvgxfay.,vzy.uvca.afgvunvxtafxfix,vunvkx
infdnyf x veausvsatq

“Sxva.vmfvmiunc,”v.ma vGorx.,v“esnvpmuxpovcxuycfx vdcntvusxvPne
Inyfucax.veausvusxvintbmfovndv.np axc.vndvesaisvsxvem.vmvrnpyfuxxc,vm
tn.uvintbmfanfmkpxvtmf:vimfv cafwv xxbxcvmf v.exmcvpny xcvusmfvmfovnfx
mcnyf vsatq”

“ nusvsxvtmwxvfnvisnaixvndvintbmfanf.?”vhyx.uanfx vUmkkmc ,vfnuaiafg
usmuv.ntxvndvusxvgcnybvpnnwx vta.bpmix vmfoesxcxvkyuv mfgpafgvdcntvm
gakkxu’.vmctq

“Fnuvsx,”v.ma vGorx.,v“miinc afgvunvsa.v.uncax.,vsxvsm.vtx..x veaus
usxvenc.uvndvusxviyu-uscnmu.vndvusxv.ucmau.,vwxbuvkovusxv.a xvnd
ipmbbxc nggxc.vnfvusxacvcnyf .,vpxmcfx vmppvusxv.pmfgvndvusxvbycpaxy.
ndvIsxmb.a x,vmf venyp vm.vpaxdvsnkfnkveausvmvcyddpxcvm.veausvm
fnkpxtmfvncvbmca.svbcax.uq”

“Smusvsxvgnn v.xf.x?”

“Usxvrxcovkx.u,vAvusafw,vdncvAvsxmc vusxvZy.uaixv.movusmuvsxvecnux
bpmo.vndvusxvbxnbpx,vmf vty.uvtafgpxveausvusxtvunvpxmcfvusxacvemo.q”

Kovusa.vuatxvusxovsm vmbbcnmisx vmvrmimfuvumkpx,vmf vm.vUmkkmc v.xmux 
sat.xpdveausvbcxuxf x v addaiypuo,vsxv.ma ,v“Fnev.auvonyvusxcx;vto
dcaxf ,vmf vsmrxvnfxviybveausvtxvkxdncxvonyvrxfuycxvnyuq”

Gorx.vcxhyacx vfnv.xinf vafraumuanfq

“’Ua.vmvkm vfagsuvunvsyfuvusxvsagsemo.vdncvipmbbxc nggxc.,”v.ma vsx,vm.
sxv cnbbx vafunvmvismac,vmf vbyppafgvsa.vesa.wxc.vgpmfix vmcnyf vusx
cnntveausvmfvmacvndvdmtapamcauovm.vgcxmuvm.vusmuvndvmvismafx vtm.uadd
afvsa.vnefvwxffxpq

“A.vauvmvkxggmcvonyvmcxvmduxc?”vm.wx vUmkkmc veausvmvdncix vmacvnd
yfinfixcfq

“Fnuvxjmiupo,vmf vAvinccxiuvtovxjbcx..anf,”vcxuycfx vGorx.,v“kyuvnfx
xrxfvpx..vsmctdypq”

“.ntxvbnncv xrapvesnvsm.vdmapx vunvmuuxf visycisvdncvmv.yf movncvuen,
xs?”v[fnuxv34q]

“Fmo,vAvunnwvafvuenvnfv.yisvintbpmafu.vusa.vtncfafg,vkyuvun-fagsuvA
.smppvsmapvafvmvkpm.bsxtxcq”

“Smc povun-fagsu,”vusnygsuvUmkkmc ,vmf vusxfvsxvm  x vmpny ,v“ nusvfnu
usovinf.iaxfixvbcaiwvusxxvmuvuatx.vdncv cmggafgv.yisvtxfvunvzmap?”

“Avmtvkyuvmfvaf.ucytxfuvndvusxvpme,”vcxbpax vusxvinf.umkpxvafv xxb
unfx.,vmuvusxv.mtxvuatxv.ucawafgvsa.visx.uveausvsa.vdafgxc.vxra xfupo
afvataumuanfvndvusxvrnaixvmf vmiuanfvndvusxvPnc vSagsv.sxcaddqv“Usxvtmf
esnv.snyp vsmrxvinp v.exmu.va.vusxvmiiy.xc,vusxvbykpaivafdnctxcq”

“Mcxvusxcxvtmfovndv.yisviyc.?”

“Xfnygsvunvwxxbvy.vky.o,”vmf.excx vGorx.q

“Mf vesnvsm.vsxp vusovfn.xvunvusxvsnuv.ixfu?”

“Nyuvine-sxc !vAvpawxvfnuvusovuxct.vndvm  cx..,”vxjipmatx vGorx.,
kcafgafgvsa.vda.uv nefveausvmvcafgvybnfvusxvumkpx,v“Mvsnuv.ixfuveausvm
fn.xvybnfvauvcma.x.vusxvdagycxvndvmv ngqvAuvumwx.vfnvwxxfveauvunv.xx
usmuqvMf vm.vusnyvsm.uvimppx vauvtovfn.x,vusxfvdnc.nnus,vAvmtvusxv ngq”

“Fmo,vfmo!”vxjipmatx vUmkkmc ,v“Avtxmfuvfnvnddxf.xqvSxcx,vAvipafw
gpm..x.veausvusxxvm.vxra xfixvndvgnn -dxppne.sabq”

Usxovcma.x vusxvgpm..x.vndveafxvesaisvusxv cmexcvsm v.xuvkxdncxvusxtq

“Esnvem.vusxvmiiy.xcvndvusxvtmfvonyvkxmcvmvemccmfuvdnc?”

“Kmtx,”v.ma vusxvinf.umkpx,vpnexcafgvsa.vrnaixqv“Sxva.vnfxvndvusxvbcatx
tnrxc.vmgmaf.uvBmba.u.vmf v.inddxc.vndvcxpaganfq”

“Ndvusxvx.umkpa.sx visycis,vxs?”

“Fmo,vmv.nyc,vtncn.xvKcnefa.u,vesnv.ucawx.vmuvmppvkyuvsa.vnefv.xiuq”

“Mvgm vdpo,”v.ma vUmkkmc q

“Mfvm.b,vtncxvpawx;vmvimccanf-xmuafgv.eafx!”vxjipmatx vGorx.,vm.vusnygs
usxvenc .vexcxvusxvdcnusvndvkauuxcvcxinppxiuanf.q

“A.vsa.vcnbxvpnfg?”

“M.vpnfgvm.vusxvpme.vyf xcvesaisvsxvmiu.q”

“Mf vesnva.vusxvmiiy.x vafvusa.vim.x?”

“Isca.--”

Sxvisxiwx vsat.xpdvmf vusxfvinfuafyx :

“’. xmus!vEsxfvAvgxuvusxvcxrapxcvesxcxvpakxcuova.vmv.exxuvtxtnco
nfpo,vAveappvadvAvisnn.xvimppvmpny vsa.vfmtxvafvxrxcovhymcuxcvkyuv.uq
Bmyp’.q”

“Mf vesovfnuvusxcx?”

“Sxvsmusvmuumiwx vusxvisycis,v’ua.v.ma q”

“Imf.uvusnyvfnuvcxinppxiuvsa.vfmtx,vnrxcvusa.v.xinf vgpm..?”vafhyacx 
Umkkmc ,v.tnnuspoq

“Av.ma vfnusafgvndvtovcxinppxiuanfvkxafgvdmypuoq”

“Sm.uvusnyvusxvemccmfu?vAdvusnyvsm.uvpxuvtxv.xxvau,”v.ma vUmkkmc ,
eausvusxvmacvmf vunfxvndvnfxvafvinttmf qv“Sxcx,v.ntxvtncxvndvusmuvkx.u
Csxafa.sveafx,”vsxvusyf xcx vunvusxv cmexcq

Gorx.vsm vfxrxcvxfinyfuxcx v.nvcxiwpx..vmv.bxf uscaduqvSa.vm tacmuanf
em.vca.afgvm.vxrxcovgpm..vem.vpnexcx qvSxvem.vafvfnvsyccovunvgnvnfvsa.
hyx.uqvUsxvdnggovfagsu,vmf vusxv mcwvtapx.vkxuexxfvusxvEaf tappvmf vusx
CntmfvEmppvimy.x vsatvunvxtkcmixvusxvgpauuxcafgvbcx.xfuqvUsxvumb-cnnt
ndvusxvEaf tappvfxrxcvmbbxmcx v.nvxfismfuafgqvUmkkmc ,v x.bauxvsa.
cy.uaiauo,vem.vgcneafgvafunvmvbcafixqvUsxviypuarmux vimyuanfvndvusx
inf.umkpxvnnlx vmemo,vmf vsxvbpmix vusxvemccmfuvafvUmkkmc ’.vsmf .q
Zy.uvmuvusmuvtntxfuvKmtxvempwx vafunvusxvumb-cnntvmf vimtxvsyccax po
unemc vusxvumkpxqvUmkkmc vsm vimygsuv.agsuvndvsatvnyuvndvusxvincfxcvnd
sa.vxoxqvSxvuscy.uvusxvemccmfuvafvsa.vbniwxu,vmuvusxv.mtxvuatxvgarafgvm
.agfadaimfuvgpmfixvmuvGorx.,vesn,veausvmuvdac.uvmvtnuanfvusmuvsxvenyp 
cxumwxvusxvbmbxc,v.yk.a x vnfvfnuaiafgvKmtxqvUsxvpmuuxcv.ma ,vm.vsx
cxmisx vusxvumkpx,v“Snevfne,vGorx.,vsm.vusxvmccx.uvkxxfvtm x?”

“.sncupo,v.ac,v.sncupo,”vxjipmatx vGorx.,v.imcixpovmkpxvunvinfixmpvsa.
.ycbca.xvmuv.xxafgvusxv.mfiuatnfany.-pnnwafgvKcnefa.uvkx.a xvsatvaf
usxvumb-cnntq

“Gnn vdmaus,vtmf!vGxuvusxxvnyuvhyaiw,vncvusxvdxppneveappvkxvdpx qvUsny
sm.uvmpcxm ov.hymf xcx vmfvsnycvsxcxqvIntx,v.uacvuso.xpd!”

Usxvunfx.vexcxvbxcxtbuncovmf vsy.woveausv.ybbcx..x vmfgxcqvGorx.vwfxe
Kmtx’.vbnexcqvSxvdxpuvusmuvuxtbncmcovmiuanfvem.vfxix..mcovunvbcx.xcrx
sa.vnddaixqvUcyx,vsxvinyp vfnuvmiuveausnyuvusxvemccmfu,vmf vsxv mcx 
fnuvxjbn.xvunvKmtxvsa.vdnppovkov xtmf afgvau.vcxuycfqv.n,vsnbafgvusmu
sxvinyp v.xxvUmkkmc vpmuxc,vmf ,vsmrafgvbcniycx vusxvemccmfu,vtmwxvusx
mccx.u,vsxvmcn.xq

“Avmtvnddvmuvnfix--”vsxv.ma q

“N  .vxf !”vxjipmatx vKmtxv.mrmgxpo,v“ nf’uv.unbvunvtnyusvenc .qvBy.s
mpnfgq”

“Mf vesxcxveappvonyvpn gx?”vm.wx vusxvinf.umkpxvndvUmkkmc ,vesn,
cxznaiafgvnrxcvusxvintbpxuxvcxpaxdvsxvsm v.xiycx vdncvsa.vdcaxf vWau,
.muvusxcxvmbbmcxfupovyfinfixcfx q

“Sxcx,”vmf.excx vUmkkmc q

Gorx.vuycfx vmf vempwx vmemovdcntvusxtqvAfvgnafg,vKmtx’.vkmiwvem.
unemc vsat,vkyuvsxv.mevusxv.tapafgvdmixvndvUmkkmc ,vmf v.ucawafgvsa.
nefvkcxm.u,vsxvtm xvmvtnuanfveausvsa.vsmf vm.vusnygsvunv.mo,v“Usx
emccmfuvonyvsmrxvafvonycvbniwxuv xparxcvunvtxvmvpauupxvpmuxcq”

Umkkmc vfn  x vsa.vsxm vyf xc.umf afgpo,vmf vusxvucnykpx vmctvndvusx
pmevbm..x vnyuvndvusxvnp vZxecovxfucmfixq

Kmtxv.icyuafalx vusxvpmuxvintbmfanfvndvusxvinf.umkpxvdncvmfvafuxcrmp
eausnyuvismfgafgvsa.vbn.auanfqvUmkkmc v.umcx vkmiwvmuvsatveausvmf
xjbcx..anfvndvinfuxtbuvmf vsmucx ,vesaisvismfgx vunvmv.tapxvndvucaytbs
m.vsxvusnygsuveausvesmuvxjypumuanfvsxvinyp vuxmcvusxvemccmfuvafun
.scx .vkxdncxvKmtx’.vxox.qvSxvauisx vunv nvauvnfvusxvaf.umfu;vkyuvusx
nusxcvtmfvesxxpx vcnyf vmf v.nygsuvmvumkpxvafvmvcxuacx vincfxc,vdcnt
esxcxvsxvinfuafyx vsa.v.icyuafovndvUmkkmc qvUsxcxvem.v.ntxusafgvmknyu
usxvpmuuxcvtmfvesaisvzmccx vmvisnc vafvKmtx’.vtxtnco,vmf v.y  xfpovsx
cxingfalx vsatvm.vusxvbxc.nfvesnvsm vkxxfveausvTmcpnexvmuvusxv npbsafq
Usa.vcxingfauanf,vinffxiux veausvusxvdmiuvndvusxvpmuxpovafuxccybux 
txxuafgvkxuexxfvGorx.vmf vUmkkmc ,vcma.x vsa.v.y.baianf.,vmf vsa.
emuisafgvkximtxvpawxvusmuvndvmvsmewq

Umkkmc vunnwvnyuvusxvemccmfuqvSxvnbxfx vauviycany.povmf vxjmtafx vusx
.xmpqvAuvem.vusxvnfpovbncuanfvndvusxvbmbxcvusmuvm..ycx vsatvndvusx
pxgmpvismcmiuxcvndvusxvecauqvEnc .vafvGcxxwvinyp vsmrxvinfrxox vm.
tyisvtxmfafgvm.vusn.xvbcafux vmf vecauuxfvnfvusxvbmbxcqvAdvsxvsm vkxxf
infraiux vndvdxpnfo,vUmkkmc venyp vsmrxv.yddxcx vusxv.xrxcxvbxfmpuo;
dncvusxvkxfxdauvndvipxcgovenyp vfnuvsmrxvmrmapx vsatqvSxvinyp vfnuvcxm 
usxvPnc ’.vBcmoxcvafvXfgpa.svbcafuq

Sxvdnp x vusxvbmbxcvmf vusxfvkxgmfvuxmcafgvauvafunv.tmppvkau.qvUsx.x
sxv.imuuxcx vmcnyf vsat,vdxxpafgvpawxvmvpadxvinfraiuvumwafgvusxvdac.u
kcxmusvndvmacvnyu.a xvusxvkcnwxfvemppvndvusxvbca.nfqvM.vsxvgcnyf 
usxvpm.uvbaxix.vafunvusxv.mf vyf xcvsa.vdxxu,vsxvpadux vsa.vgpm..
ndvCsxafa.sveafxvmf vuscxevsa.vsxm vkmiwvunv cmafvusxvinfuxfu.qvUsx
usnygsuvndv“.acvWau”vem.vafvsa.vtaf ,vmv.tapxvbpmox vybnfvsa.vpab.q

Inyp v xmusv.ucawxvy.vmuvusxvtntxfuvndvmiintbpa.safgvgnn vdncvmvdcaxf 
ncvdncvusxvsytmfvcmix,vexvtagsuvfnuvbmcpxovkyuvbm..veausvgpncadax 
dmix.vafunvmvbxmixvm..ycx povafvwxxbafgveausvusxvznovwaf px vkovusx
gxfxcny.vmiuqvEausvdxevusxvxf vintx.v.nvgpncany.poqvUnvusxv.np axc,vusx
tmcuoc,vusxvtnusxc,v.yisvbm..afgvndvusxv.bacauva.vnduvrnyis.mdx ;vusx
dac.u,vdmppafgvmuvusxvsxm vndvusxvraiuncany.vdncix.vnfvusxvimbuycx 
kmuupxtxfu.;vusxv.xinf ,vmta vdpmtx.vmuvusxv.umwx;vusxvpm.u,veausvusx
dac.uvkcxmusvndvsxcvafdmfuvybnfvsxcvpab.vmpcxm ov mtbveausvusxv xevnd
 a..npyuanfq

Afvusxvbn.auanfvm..ytx vkovUmkkmc vdncvsa.vpm.uv cmygsu,vusxvkcagsu
dpmtxvndvmv.y.bxf x vpmtbvdpmcx vafvsa.vxox.qvUnvsatvauvmbbxmcx vun
.eafgvafvmviacipx,vmpusnygsvafvdmiuvauvem.v.umuanfmco;vmf vusxvrmypux 
ixapafgv.xxtx vca.afgvafvmacvsagsxcvmf vsagsxc,vyfuapvsxvpnnwx vafun
usxv mcwfx..vndvmk.npyuxvfagsuqvAuvem.vsa.vsxm vusmuv.emox vaf.uxm 
ndvusxvpmtb;vauvem.vusxvgcm ympvdmapycxvndvsa.vxox-.agsuvusmuvcma.x 
usxvbsxfntxfnfvndvusxvdm afgvixapafgqvMvranpxfuvfmy.xmv.xalx vsat,v.n
usmuvxrxcovdakxcvndvsa.vkn ov.snnwvmf vsa.vgpm..vdxppv.sarxcx vybnf
usxvdpnncqvSxvgcnmfx v.nvpny povusmuvxrxcovnfxvafvusxvcnntvuycfx vsa.
dmixvafvsa.v acxiuanfqvMf vusy.,vkxdncxv.umcafgvmf v.umcupx vdmix.,vusx
hyarxcafgvtmfvcnppx vdcntvsa.vismacvunvusxv.mf x vdpnncqvMvesa.bxc
cn.xvdcntvxrxcovpab,vxjixbuvdcntvusxvbmacvesaisvgcxevesauxvafv a.ucx..q
Usxvenc .vexcxvusxv.mtxvdcntvmpp:

“Usxvbpmgyx!”

Usxv.ucaiwxfvtmfvtmovsmrxvsxmc vusxvuenvenc .,vkyuvauvinyp vsmrx
infrxox vfnvfxevua afg.vunvsa.vtaf qvXrxfvusxv.sarxcvndvsa.vdcmtxvdcnt
mv cmygsuvndvinp vmacvenyp vsmrxv.bcyfgvusxvkxpaxdvusmuvusxvdac.u
.otbuntvndvusxvKpmiwv xmusvsm vmbbxmcx qvKyuvusxcxvem.vfnvta.umwafg
usxvbmfgvusmuv.snuvuscnygsvsat,vpawxvmfvmccnevdcntvmvpnfgvkneqvInyp 
sxvsmrxv.xxfvsa.vdmixvmvdxevtntxfu.vmduxcemc vm.vKmtxv.mevau,vuycfx 
ybemc vnfvusxvdpnnc,vsxvenyp vsmrxv ax vtncxv.y  xfpovdcntvdcagsu;
sætnccsmgaiv.bnu.v a.inpncx vau--usxvyfta.umwmkpxv.otknpvndvafuxcfmp
 a..npyuanfqvUsxovpnnwx vpawxvusxvkpmiwvatbcafu.vndvusxvdafgxc.vndvm
smf vusmuvsm vkxxfvuscy.uveausvranpxfixvmgmaf.uvauq

“Uxppvsatvsxva.v.mdx,”vimtxvusxvkcnwxfvenc .vdcntvpab.vtnrx vkovm
emf xcafgvtaf q

“Esn?”vm.wx vKmtx,vpxmfafgvnrxcvsatq

Usxv oafgvtmfv a vfnuvmf.exc,vkyuvusxvenc .v“ xbudnc ”vmf vusxv“Xmcp’.
miunc.”vexcxvyuuxcx vafvsa.vcmtkpafgv.bxxisq




USXvTNP AFGvNDvUSXvTM.Wq

vvvv_Znrxv.ntxuatx.vtm.wx vafvmv.sxbsxc ’.vexx ,_
vvvv_Mf vkovusn.xv.uxb.,vusmuvsxvsmusv.impx vusxvsxmrxf.,_
vvvv_Tmovexvkxintxvattncumpvpawxvusxvgn .q_

vvvv--_AvUmtkycpmafx,va,v2q_

vvvv_InfixmpvtxvesmuvAvmt,vmf vkxvtovma _
vvvv_Dncv.yisv a.gya.xvm.vsmbpovtmovkxintx_
vvvv_Usxvdnctvndvtovafuxfuq_

vvvv--_UexpdusvFagsu,va,v2q_


Usxv.apxfixvafvBxxpx’.vismtkxcvmuvusxvKnmc’.vSxm vsm vinfuafyx vtmfo
tafyux.qvUsxvuscxxvsxmcxc.vndvTmcpnex’.vrara vcxiaumpvpnnwx vmuvxmis
nusxcvxjbxiumfupo;vkyuvm.vmppvsm vhymddx vsa.viybvndvta.xco,v.apxfix
em.vmpnfxvusxvdauvxjbcx..anfvndvusxacv xbusvndvdxxpafgvmf vafuxcx.uq
Usxvafuxf.xvbxc.nfmpauovndvusxvtmfvsm vmcny.x vafvusxtv.xfuatxfu.vpawx
usn.xvsxvxfuxcumafx qvUsxovcxingfalx vsa.vgxfay.v[fnuxv18vunv24],vusx
sxagsuvdcntvesaisvsxvsm vdmppxf,vusxv xbpncmkpxfx..vndvsa.v.auymuanfq
Auvem.vm.vusnygsvsa.vafuxppxiuvsm vyf.xmux vusxac.vmf vtnyfux vnfvusx
uscnfx.vusy.vrmimux qvUsy.vusxvknnfvintbmfanfvndvusxacvcanuny.vdnppax.,
usxvgnn vdxppne,vusxvexpp-kxpnrx vmf vcxrxp-pnrafgvWau,vsm vafvmvuscaix
rmfa.sx vafvusafvmac,vmf vmvrxcaumkpxvwafgvndvtxfvm..ytx vsa.vbpmixq

Sxvsm v.atbpov.yttnfx vusxvbnexcvusmuvsxvwfxevem.vpn gx veausafvsat,
 xxbvafvusxvafxjsmy.uakpxvdnyfumafvdcntvesaisvsxvsm v cmefvsa.vpafx.vnd
dacxvmf vdagycx.vndvattncumpvtnp q

“Pxuvy.vimptpovinf.a xcvonycv.auymuanf,”vmuvpxfgusv.ma vUmtencus,
pnnwafgvdxxpafgpovmuvTmcpnex,v“Mgmaf.uvuso.xpdvpaxusvfnevmfvmiiy.muanf
ndvkpm.bsxtovybnfvesaisvmvemccmfuvsmusvkxxfva..yx qvXrxfvfne,
yf nykux po,veausvusa.vafvsmf ,vusxvnddaixc.v.sm nevusoviy.untmco
smyfu.qv ycafgvusxacv.xmcis,vfxe.veappv.nnfvintxvndvusov xmusvmu
 xbudnc ;vdnc,vdcntvesmuvusnyv.moxusvndvusxvyfdncuyfmuxvDcmlxc’.
cx.xtkpmfixvunvusxx,vsxveappvkxvkycax vyf xcvusovfmtxqvUsxvemccmfuveapp
kxvcxuycfx ;vusxvafdnctmuanfvbagxnfsnpx ,vmf vusnyveapuvsmrxvpauupxvun
dxmcvdcntvusmuv.nycixq”

“Yfpx..vsxvgnx.vmkcnm vmtnfgvusn.xvesnvwfnevsat,”vxzmiypmux vBxxpxq

“Usmuvimfvfnuvkx,”vesa.bxcx vTmcpnexq

“Usxfvexveappvumwxvau,vusmu,vm.vTmcpnex,vusnyvmcuvpawxvnfxv xm vkxonf 
mppvcx.yccxiuanf,”vinfuafyx vusxvpmeoxcveausvxtbsm.a.q

“Auvimfvfnuvkxvnusxcea.x,”vcxznafx vusxv.ykzxiuvndvusx.xvinttxfu.,
“yfpx..vafv.ntxvcxucxmuvndvm..ycx v.mdxuo,vmf vmuv.ntxvdyuycxvuatx,vA
cxrxmpvto.xpdq”

“M.vusxv.pmoxcvndvusxvInyfu?”vem.vm.wx q

“Usxcx’.vusxvcyk,”vesa.bxcx vTmcpnex,v.smwafgvsa.vsxm q

“Exppvusmuva.vdncvpmuxcvinf.a xcmuanf,”v.ma vUmtencusvimptpoqv“Pxuvtx
infuafyxqvNfvusxvtnccnevmvsyxvmf vicoveappvkxvcma.x vdncvusxvmccx.uvnd
Dcmfia.vDcmlxcqvUsxvismcmiuxcvesaisvonyvsmrxvm..ytx vdncvusxvpm.uvdxe
snyc.vimffnuvmrmapvusxxvdycusxcqvAuvsm.vmf.excx vau.vbycbn.xqvUsny
sm.uvwxbuvusovfmtxvdcntvkxafgv.yppax veausvusxvicatxvndvtyc xcqvKyuvm.
usxvInyfu,vncvDcmfia.vDcmlxc,vusnyvimf.uvfnuvempwvdncusq”

“M..ycx povfnu,”v.ma vBxxpxq

“Mfvmccx.uvkxdncxvfnnfvenyp vdnppne,”vafuxccybux v.smwx.bxcx,v“mf 
usxf,vusovucamp,vafvesais,vbxcismfix,vusxvucyxv.auymuanfvndvmddmac.
enyp vintxvunvpagsuq”

“Esxcxafvpaxusv.mdxuo?”vm.wx vTmcpnex,vcma.afgvsa.vxox.vmf vgpmfiafg
dcntvnfxvdmixvunvusxvnusxcvndvsa.vdcaxf .q

“Mvpadxvndvnk.iycauo,”vmf.excx vUmtencus,v“a.vmppvAvimfv.xxvdncvusxx,
yfpx..vusafxvxddncu.vmuvinfixmptxfuvmcxvyf nfx;vonyv xparxcvonyc.xpdvyb
mf v.umf vucampqvAvimffnuvgymcmfuxxvmfvmihyauump,vkyuvauva.vfnuvgnafg
unnvdmcvunvbpmixvdactvsnbxvafvnfxq”

“Fn,”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,v“cmusxcvusxvinfixmptxfuvmf vnk.iycauovusmf
.yisvinyc.xqvUsxv axvsm.vkxxfvim.u;v.nvdmcvauvencwxusvexpp,vmf vxrxf
eausvmfvmihyauump,vusa.vyfucax vismcgxvndvkpm.bsxtovenyp v.uaiwvaf
usxvkyccqvEsmuva.vau?vSnevdmcv nusvauvcxmis?vSm.uvusnyvmvinbovndvusx
miiy.muanf?”

“Avsmrx,”v.ma vBxxpx,vmgmafvbcn yiafgvusxvbmbxcvmf vsmf afgvauvun
Tmcpnexq

“Usxv.xrxcauovmf vdmp.auovndvusxvismcgx.vmbbmppvtx,”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,
“fnusafgvinyp vkxvkpmiwxcqvMcxvusxcxvfnvtxmf.vunvraf aimuxvtovfmtx?”

“Onycvtxtnco,”v.yggx.ux v.smwx.bxcxq

“Ucyx,vusmuva.vmppvusxvencp vsmusvndvtx,vkyuvafvmppv.xcany.fx..vimfvfnu
usa.vdmp.xv.exmcxc,vKmtx,vkxvbyfa.sx ?”

“Sxvimf,vadvonyv x.acxvau,”vmf.excx vUmtencusq

“ x.acxvau?vEsmuvtmfvenyp vfnuv xtmf vau?”

“Avwfnevndvfnfxq”

“Tyisvndvauva.vunnvrapxvdncvyuuxcmfix,vmf vusmuvAvwfxevnfxvBnnpxvaf
Fxegmux,vmf vafuxf x vinafafgvXfgpa.sv.sappafg.va.vm.vdmp.xvm.vSxppq
Esxfv.smppvsa.vbcn.xiyuanfvkxvby.sx ?”

“Muvnfix,”vmf.excx vUmtencusq

“Nfvesmuvismcgx?”

“Bxczycoq”

“Usxvbxfmpuova.vesmu?”

“Sxvimfvkxvucax vxausxcvyf xcvusxv.umuyuxvncvusxvinttnfvpmeqvYf xcvusx
pmuuxc,vusxvbyfa.stxfuva.v xmusq”

“Pxuvauvkxvusxvpmuuxc,”v.ma vBxxpxvmf v.smwx.bxcxvkxdncxvTmcpnexvinyp 
mf.excq

“Kyuvunvcxuycfvunvusxv.yggx.uanfvndvonycvinfixmptxfu,”v.ma vBxxpx,v“Sne
imfvonyvcxtmafvinfixmpx vdncvmfovpxfgusvndvuatx?”

“FnvnfxveappvpnnwvdncvtxqvMppvesnvwfnevtxveappvsxmcvusxvmiinyfuvndvto
 xmusvmuv xbudnc q”

“Kyuv.ntxnfxvkx.a x.vy.vmf vusxveadxvndvDcmlxcveappv nykupx..vxfinyfuxc
usxxq”

“ImfvAvfnuvpaxv.mdxpovsny.x vyfuapvbm..mgxvimfvkxv.xiycx vdncvusx
infuafxfu?”

“Kyuvafvesmuvhymcuxc?”

“Dmcvdcntvusxvnp vdmtapamcvbpmix.,vBxxpx,”vmf.excx vTmcpnexqv“Fnuvmu
usxvKpmiwvKypp,vfncvmuvGxcmc ’.vSmpp;vfncvmuvusxvTxctma vUmrxcfqvMf 
mcxvusx.xvfmtx.vunvkxvkyuvtxtncax.?vEso,vauva.vfnuvuenvexxw.v.afixvex
.xicxupovbpmox vUmficx vmf vGa.tyf vunvusxvicne x vgmppxcax.vafvusx
Kypp;vmf vusxfvusxv mfixvmcnyf vusxvdac-bnpxvafvusxvsags-cnndx vsmppvmu
Gxcmc ’.!vUsmuvem.vfnuvmvtnfusv.afix,vBxxpxqvMf vrxcapovtovpab.vsmrx
fnuvoxuv cax vdcntvusxvpm.uvgpm..x.vndvdafxvnp veafxv cmfwveausvusxx,
Fm.s,vZnf.nfvmf vusxvnusxcvtxccovemg.vmuvusxvcnyf vumkpxveausafvusx
kne-eaf nevmuvusxvTxctma q”

Bxxpxvcniwx vkmiwemc vmf vdncemc veausnyuv.bxmwafgq

“Msvexpp,v.yisvdcarnpauov.snyp vsmrxvxf x vpnfgvmgn,”vTmcpnexvexfuvnf,
afvmvunfxvgcneafgv.uxcfxcveausvxrxcovenc qv“Esxfvtafxvxfxto,vGcxxfx,
 oafgvndvsa.v.ycdxauvndvCsxafa.sveafxvmf vbaiwpx vsxccafg,vkx.nygsu
sa.vdcaxf .vafvsa.vGcnmu’.vEncusvndvEauv[fnuxv35]vunvmkmf nfv a..npyux
intbmfanf.vmf vafv.npauy xvfnyca.svusxacv.bacau’.vdacx,vesov.snyp vA,
 x.bauxvsa.vmuumiwvybnfvtx,vsmrxvfnuvpa.uxfx vunvsa.vemcfafgvrnaix
m  cx..x vunvnusxc.,vmf vfnuvsmrxvemaux vdncvmvdafgxcv abbx vafvkpnn 
unvecaux,v‘Sxcxvxf xusvusovimcxxc?’”

Mvbmy.xvdnppnex vafvesaisvfnvnfxv.bnwx,vmf vmgmafvsxvinfuafyx :v“’Ua.
exppvusmuvusa.vsm.vsmbbxfx qvEausnyuvauvesmuvinyp vsmrxv.umox vtxvdcnt
em.uafgvusxvsnyc.vesaisvsxfixdncusvimfvkxv.bxfuvnfpovafvafuxppxiuymp
xddncu?vFnevusxv xrapva.vismafx qvAvimfvfnuvxrxfv.xppvtov.nypvun
satqvUsxvencp veausvau.vuxtbumuanf.vpaxusvm.v a.umfuvm.vusxvdaxp .vnd
Ucm.otxfxqvA.vauvfnuvmv.ykzxiuvdncvinfgcmuypmuanf?vEsmuvimtbmagf.vtmovA
fnuvxfuxc;vesmuvinfhyx.u.vtmovAvfnuvgmaf?”

Eausvusxvxgnua.tvndvmvgn ,vwfneafgvsat.xpd,vmf vusxv.nycixvdcntvesais
sxv cxevsa.vaf.bacmuanf,vsxvinfuafyx vsa.vunccxfuvndvenc .:

“Umtkycpmafxvem.vecauuxfveausvusxvinppmcvndvusxvyfarxc.auovmknyu
tovfxiw;vDmy.uy.,vesapxvtovsmucx vndvusxvxja.uafgvpme.v x.agfx vun
ismafvnfx’.vkxpaxd,vbcxrxfux vmvzy.uvmbbcxiamuanfvndvucyxvcxpaganf;
usxvTm..micxvndvBmca.,veausvtovtaf v a.uyckx vdcntvusxvxddxiu.vnd
infuafyny.v a..abmuanf;vSxcnvmf vPxmf xc,vesapxv xxbvafvPnrx’.vonyfg
 cxmt;vmf v.nvnfveausvusxvpa.uqvKyuvfnevesmuva.vusxcxvunvipngvncvty  o
usxvdnyfumaf.?vA.vtovtaf vfnuvkcnm xc;vmcxvfnuvusxvatbx atxfu.vun
.uy any.vmbbpaimuanfvmf vyf a.uyckx vinfuxtbpmuanfvcxtnrx ?vDncvuexfuo,
usacuo,voxmvdncuovncvdaduovoxmc.,vesmuva.vkxdncxvtxvkyuvusxvnbbncuyfauo
unvbcn yixvattncumpvmf vucmf.ixf xfuvencw?vFmo,vgarxvtxvuxfvoxmc.vaf
.npauy x,vNvusnyv cxm vdncix,vmf vyf xcvtovsmf vmppvdnct,vmppvusnygsu,
.smppvdaf vxjbcx..anfvafvecauuxfvenc .!”

Sxvdxppvdncemc vnfvusxvumkpxveausvnyu.ucxuisx vmct.vmf vipxfisx vsmf .q
.smwx.bxcxvpadux vsatvyb;vbauoafgpovkcy.sx vkmiwvusxvsmacvdcntvsa.
dmix,vmf v.ma :v“Dncgxuvusxvtmuuxcvdncvmvtntxfuq”

Fnvnusxcvenc .vexcxv.bnwxf;v.uappvusxvcmafvbmuuxcx vnfvusxveaf ne
nbxfafgvunemc .v.uqvTaismxp’.,vmf vfnv.nyf .vimtxvybvdcntvusxvfmccne
empw.vafvIcnnwx vPmfxq

MuvpxfgusvUmtencusvkcnwxvusxv.apxfixqv“Av nvfnuv nyku,v xmcvWau,vusmu
esmuxrxcvtmovkxvusovmat,vusovmccneveappvcxmisqvKyuvpadxvimfvfnuvkx
tmafumafx veausnyuvimbaumpvncvcxrxfyxqvOnycv x.agfvkxafgvpafwx veaus
mfvmtkauanfvdncvbxc.nfmpvattncumpauovbcxipy x.vusxvbykpaimuanfvndvuso
bcn yiuanf.vuappvmduxcvusov xmusvncvesxfvsnbxvndvpadxva.vgnfxqvFne,
esxcxveappvintxvusxvdyf vdncvusovtmafuxfmfix?”

“Usnyvimf.uvfnuvmbbxmcvm.vmfvmiunc,”v.yggx.ux v.smwx.bxcxq

“Mf vfxausxcvimfvusxvencw.vonyvtmovbcn yixvkxv.np vm.vusafx,”v.ma 
Bxxpxq

“Inyp vusxovfnuvkxv.np vyf xcv.ntxvnfxvxp.x’.vfmtx?”vm.wx vTmcpnexqv“Mu
usxvbcnbxcvuatxvusxacvmyusnc.sabvinyp vkxvinfdx..x vmf vx.umkpa.sx q”

“Kyuvafvesn.xvfmtx?”vhyxcax vBxxpxq

“Esovfnuvusafx;vmuvpxm.uvuxtbncmcapo?”

“Kms,”vxzmiypmux vBxxpx,v“Avinyp vfnuvbm..vusov cmtm.vnddvm.vtafxqvUsx
.uopx,vtov xmcvdxppne,vusxv.uopxqvSxf.pnexvenyp vmuvnfixv.mo,v‘Esmu
Bxxpx,vusa.vusov cmtm?vTmcco,vmf vesxcxv a .uvusnyv.uxmpvusa.vfxevdacx?
NddveausvusxxqvAuva.vfnfxvndvusafxqvPxmrxvauqvAveappvpnnwvybvusxvnp xc
 cmtmua.u.,vGcxxwvmf vPmuaf,vdcntvesaisvAvexxfvusnyvsm.uvumwxfvau.
xfuacx,’”

“Usxfvesovfnuvm.vusafx,v.smwx.bxcx?”

“Tafx,”vxjipmatx v.smwx.bxcx,v.smwafgveausvpmygsuxcvesaisvsxvinyp vfnu
infucnp,v“Gcxmuxcvnkzxiuanf.vusmfvusn.xv.umux vkovBxxpxvenyp vmca.xq
Nfpovmvdxevoxmc.vmgnvAvsxp vsnc.x.vkxdncxvusxvIycumafvmf vUsxmuxcqvA
ecauxvmvbpmo;vSn!vSn!”

Sxvpmygsx v.nvsxmcuapovusmuvUmtencusvznafx veausvsatq

“.unb,”v.ma vBxxpx,vxf xmrncafgvunvafuxccybuvusxv.y  xfvtacus,v“Usx
.yggx.uanfva.vmvgnn vnfxqvEsmuv nx.vSxf.pnexvwfnevndvonycvsnc.xsnp afg,
dcaxf vEapp?”

“Kyu,”vmf.excx v.smwx.bxcx,v“sxvwfnexusvusmuvAvimtxvdcntvusxvta.xcmkpx
rappmgxvndv.ucmudnc -nf-Mrnfvnfpov.ajvoxmc.vmgn,vesxcxvusxcxvmcxvdxe
knnw.vmf vfnusafgvkxuuxcvusmfvmvgcmttmcv.isnnpqv[fnuxv36]vMpusnygs
Avimfv.mov‘.uabxf aytvbxiimuavtnc.vx.u,’vm.vkxafgvpxmcfx vdcntvuso
Dmy.uy.,vTmcpnex,vAvenyp v axvafvusxvmuuxtbuvunvgarxvau.vtxmfafgq”

“Sxv.ycxpoveappvfnuvhyx.uanfvusxxvmknyuvusovPmuafvncvusovGcxxw,”v.ma 
Umtencus,vznafafgvafveausvusxv.isxtx,v“mf vm.vusnyvsm.uvfxrxcvuycfx 
mvsmf vmuv.yisvencw,vusxcxvmcxvfnu,vm.vafvBxxpx’.vim.x,vdmac-.waffx 
isap cxfvndvxmcpaxcvkacusvunvgarxvusxvpaxvunvusxvbmuxcfauovndvusxvpmuxc
nfx.vndv addxcxfuvintbpxjanfq”

“Mf vmtvAvunvipmatvusxtvm.vtafx?”vm.wx v.smwx.bxcxq

“Nfpovm.vtmovkxvfxix..mcovdncvusxv.mpxvunvusxmucaimpvtmfmgxc.,”
mf.excx vTmcpnexq

“Mf vbxcismfixvgcnevdmtny.;vdncvexvwfnevusxv xbusvmf v.ucxfgusvndvuso
encwq”

“Nfpovdncvmvuatx,”v.ma vTmcpnex,vatbcx..arxpo,v“Afvusxvxf vmppveappvkx
ipxmcq”

“.nvkxvauvusxf,”v.ma v.smwx.bxcxq

“Kyuvusovsmf ecauafg,vTmcpnex,va.vunnvexppvwfnefqv.uapp,”vinfuafyx 
Umtencus,v“usxvtmfy.icabuvtmovkxvinbax ,vmf vm.vAvecauxvmvipxmcvsmf vA
enyp vgpm povma vusxxq”

“Kyuvesxcxvmcxvonyvunvparx,vWau?”

“Muv.nyusemcw?”vhyx.uanfx vusxvpmuuxcq

“Fmo,”vxjipmatx vUmtencus,v“usxvCn.xva.vusxcx,veausvtmfovbpmoxc.vesn
wfnevusxx,vmf vau.vfytxcny.vsmfgxc.-nfqvUsxvsxmcuvndvusa.viauova.vdmc
kxuuxcqvAvwfnevndvmvcxucxmuqvFnvsyfux v xxcvxrxcvdnyf v.nv.xiycxvm
inrxcuqvAuva.vusxvkyap afgvwfnefvm.vusxvBcafix’.vEmc cnkxvnfvusxvNp 
ZxecoqvAu.vincca nc.vmcxvyfdcxhyxfux vxjixbuvkovusxvdxevuxfmfu.vesn,
uscnygsvusxvkxfxrnpxfixvndvusxvbcx.xfuvwxxbxc,v exppvafv.ntxvndvusx
ismtkxc.qvAu.v xtnpauanf,vkxgyfvtmfovoxmc.vmgn,vsm.vkxxfv.umox qvNfix
rmimux vkximy.xvndvfnuaixvndvau.vinfuxtbpmux vcmlafg,vauva.vmgmaf
kxafgvniiybax vuscnygsvusxvmbbmcxfuvafxcufx..vndvau.vnefxc.qvKyuvusa.
afmiuanfva.v yxvunvnusxcvimy.x.--”

“Avsmrxvsxmc vndv.xicxuvismtkxc.vusxcx,”vafuxccybux vBxxpxq

“Usxcxvmcx,”vinfuafyx vUmtencus,v“Auvem.vnfixvy.x vm.vmvbmpmix,vkyuvau.
xmcpovsa.uncova.vpn.uqv.ntxvndvau.v.unfxvempp.vmcxv nef,vmf vmknrxvusx
ipxmcx vcyaf.vmuvnfxvxf ,v arxc.vpnc povkyap afg.vsmrxvkxxfvcxmcx ;vkyu
usxvsmpdvbncuanfvunemc .v.uqvNpmrxva.vafumiuqvMvhyx.uanfvinfixcfafg
au.vuaupxvkxafgvfnevyf.xuupx vafvusxvinycu.,vfnvbcngcx..vimfvkxvtm x
xausxcvafvau.vcxbmacvncvau.v x.ucyiuanfqvOxmc.vtmovbm..vkxdncxvusx
hyx.uanfva.vdafmppov xuxctafx qvUsxvcxixarxcvmbbnafux vkovusxvinycu.va.
mv x.ixf mfuvndv.acvMfusnfovInbx,vesnvbycism.x vusxvbcnbxcuovdcntvusx
icnefvafv1548,vmf ,v yxvunvtovmihymafumfixveausvsat,vmf vpmuxv.xcraix.
cxf xcx ,vAvfnevsmrxvmvdycfa.sx vismtkxcvusxcxafqvUsxvemovnyu,vncvaf,
tmovkxvxm.ovndv a.inrxco,vmf vtovhymcuxc.vmcxvniim.anfmppovra.aux vko
dcaxf .,vkyuvunvtxvmpnfxva.vwfnefvmfvaffxcvcnntvesxcxvonyvimfv exppvaf
bxcdxiuv.mdxuoq”

“Usovenc .vmcxvndvgnn visxxc,”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,v“mf vfnv xpmovty.uvkx
afiyccx q”

“ a vonyvxfinyfuxcvfnvnfxvybnfvxfuxcafgvsxcx?”vm.wx vBxxpxq

“Fn;vAvimtxvafvmuvusxv.a xvxfucmfixqvAuvem.vnbxfqvIcnnwx vPmfxvem.
 x.xcux vm.vdmcvm.vAvinyp v.xxq”

“Mf vnfvusxvcnm vdcntv xbudnc ?”

“Fnvnfxvesnvwfxevtxvmbbxmcx vybnfvusxvcnm qvMuvusxvGnp xfvSaf vm.vA
bm..x vusxvumb-cnntv nncvAvimygsuvmvgpatb.xvndvusxv cmexc,vnfxvndvusx
miunc.vesnvsm vkxxfveausvtxvxmcpovafvusxvxrxfafg,vmf vusxveadxvnd
Dcmlxcq”

“Ms;v.sxvsm.vfnuvx.imbx vusxf?”vxjipmatx vUmtencusqv“Usa.va.v.xcany.q
.sxvtmovkxvsxp vyfuapvmduxcvusxv a.inrxcovndvusxv xx q”

“Yf nykux pov.sxvsm.vkxxf,”vmf.excx vTmcpnex,v“Avinyp vfnuvimuisvusx
niim.anfvndvsxcvcx.uafgvafvusxvumb-cnnt,vfxausxcvinyp vAvbmy.x,vdnc
 a.inrxcovenyp vsmrxvkxxfvixcumafq”

“ a v.sxv.xxvusxx?”

“Avusafwvfnu,vdncvusxv cmexcv.unn vkxdncxvsxc,v.nvusmuvnfpovmvbncuanf
ndvsxcvgnefvem.vra.akpxvunvtxqvAvtnyfux vsyccax povafvusxvaff-omc vmf 
ca afgvunvusxvgfmcpx vnmwvAvemaux vyf xcvau,vmf vafvusxvusaiwvdngvdnc
muvpxm.uvmfvsnycqv.sxv a vfnuvintxq”

“.sxveappvux.uadovmgmaf.uvusxxq”

“Fxrxc,”vxjipmatx vTmcpnexq

“Ms,”v.ma vUmtencus,vbcnpnfgafgvusxvenc vmf vnbxfafgvea xvsa.vxox.q

“Smrxvfnvdxmc.vndvusmu,”vinfuafyx vTmcpnex,vdactpo,vmf vusxfvm.vusnygs
unvuycfvusxacvusnygsu.vafunvmfnusxcvismffxp,vsxvinfuafyx :v“Usxvca x
nrxcvusmuvinyfucovcnm vem.vpnfxpovkxonf vmppvintbmca.nfqvAv.pyfwvko
usxvpagsu.vmuvCx caddxvpawxvnfxvyfmctx vbm..afgvkovusxvwfnefvpmac
ndvmv.pxxbafgvpanfqvMuvusxvtntxfuvusxov.ucyiwvtovdmixvAvinyp vsmrx
dmppxfvdcntvusxv.m  pxqvKyuvfnvxoxvndvimcxpx..vemuisxcvem.vmbbmcxfupo
dnppneafgvusxacv.xmt.vafunvusxv mcwfx..;vdncvfnvsmpnnvkcnwxvusxvfagsuq
Usxvenn vndvnmwvmf vxptvdxfiafgvusxvcnm vusa.v.a xvusxvsmpd-emovsny.x
em.vcx.nfmfuveausv.emoafgvpatk.qvMveaf vem.vintafgvdcntvusxvcarxc,vmf 
usxvdngvem.vpawxvcmafq”

“Em.vauv mcw?”

“.nv mcwvAvinyp vfnuv.xxvusxvgcnyf q”

“Usovsnc.xvdnyf vusxvemovmf vcxmisx vusxvkca gx?”

“Fn,vAvuycfx vfnuvafvunemc .vau;vkyuvbm..afgvKmumappx’.vAff,vA
cn xv nefvunvmvemuxctmf’.vsny.xvipn.xvkovusxvcarxc’.vkmfwqvUsxcxvA
 a.tnyfux ,vuax vtovsnc.xvmf vdnyf vusxvemuxctmfqvSxvem.vuoafgvsa.
esxccovmuvusxvdnnuvndvusxvpmf afgqvEausvtyisvbxc.ym.anf,vAvaf yix vsat
unvcnevtxvmicn..vmf ,vcxmisafgvusxv.unfxv.uxb.v.ntxesxcxvfxmcvusxv.emf,
Avimtxvsxcxveausvmppvsm.uxq”

“Mf vesxfvexcxvonyvpm.uvmuvonycvhymcuxc.vafvInemc vPmfx?”

“Zy.uvkxdncxv.umcuafgvdncv xbudnc q”

“Esmuxrxcva.vusxcxvty.uvkxvpxduq”

“Fmo,”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,v“Avsmrxvtyisvyfdafa.sx vencwvusxcxq”

“ nusvfnuvFm.svpn gxvafvusxv.mtxvuxfxtxfu?”

“Ox.,vafvusxvcnntvm znafafgq”

“ nusvsxvwfnevndvusx.xvecauafg.?”

“MppvmknyuvusxtqvSxva.vxfgmgx veausvtxvafvecauafgvusxvucmgx ovndv a nq
Avcxm vsatvusxvuenv.x.uam .vndvSxcnvmf vPxmf xcvnfpovuenvfagsu.v.afixq”

“Exppvusxfv.yisvusafg.vimfvfnuvkxvumwxfvyfpx..vFm.sva.vfytkxcx veaus
y.q”

“’Uenyp vfnuvkxvexpp,”v.ma vUmtencus,v“usxvpx..xcvusxvfytkxcvsnp afg
usxv.xicxu,vusxvpx..vdxmcvndv a.inrxcoq”

“Usovzy gtxfuva.v.nyf ,vUmtencus,”v.ma vTmcpnex,v“pxuvFm.svdafa.svusx
ucmgx o,vmf vsmrxvsatvbpmixvusxvbnxtvndvSxcnvmf vPxmf xcvafvusxvsmf .
ndvIsmbtmfveausvenc vusmuvauvem.vtov oafgvcxhyx.uvusmuvsxvintbpxuxvau
[fnuxv37]q”

“Gnn ,”vxjipmatx vBxxpx,v“mf vbxcismfixvxtkn oafgveausafvauv.ntxvgnp xf
pafx.vunyisafgvusovyfdncuyfmuxv xta.xq”

“Tn.uvxjixppxfu,”v.ma vTmcpnex,v.tapafgvmuvusxvusnygsuvndvcxm afgvnd
sa.vnefv xmusvmf vusxvx.uatmuxvndvsa.vnefvencusvxjbcx..x vafvusxvbnxuai
pmfgymgxvndvmvpnrafgvdcaxf q

“Usx.xvtmuuxc.,”v.ma vUmtencus,v“eappvkxvmuuxf x vunvm.v.ucaiupovm.
kxhyx.u.v.snyp vkxvkovmfvxjxiyuncqvExvty.uvmuvnfixvcxmisvtovpn gafg.q”

“PxmrxvusxvInyfu’.vipnmwvmf vumwxvusa.vndvtafx,”v.ma vBxxpx,vumwafg
 nefvmv.sncuvtmfupxvdcntvmvsnnwvmgmaf.uvusxvemppq




MvBNAFUvNDvINFDPYXFIXq

vvvv_Advxrxcv.yfv.umafx vsxmrxfveausvkpnn ovipny .,_
vvvv_Mf vtm xvauvpnnwveausvuxccncvnfvusxvencp :_
vvvv_Advxrxcv movexcxvuycfx vunvygpovfagsu_
vvvv_Mf vfagsuvtm xv.xtkpmfixvndvusxvsyxvndvsxpp,vxuiq_

vvvv--_UsxvTm..micxvmuvBmca.,v.ixfxv2q_

vvvv_Ns!vAvsmrxvbm..x vmvta.xcmkpxvfagsu,_
vvvv_.nvdyppvndvygpov.agsu.,vndvgsm.upov cxmt.,_
vvvv_Usmuvm.vAvmtvmvIsca.uamf,vdmausdypvtmf,_
vvvv_Avenyp vfnuv.bxf vmfnusxcv.yisvmvfagsu,_
vvvv_Usnygsv’uexcxvunvkyovmvencp vndvsmbbov mo.q_

vvvv--_WafgvCaismc vAAA,va,v4q_


Usxvsytmfv.xmvndvPnf nfvem.vmuvusxvbxcan vndvau.v xxbx.uvimptqvUsx
fna.ova pxvesaux-imb.vndvusxvfagsuvsm vkxxfvpma vmuvcx.u,vmf vfnu
oxuvsm vusxv.ucnfgvkappne.vndvusxvucm xviyccxfuvkxgyfvusxacv.uxm o
cnppqvUsxv.yfvtagsuvmpcxm ovsmrxvpadux vsa.vcatv.pagsupovmknrxvusx
Pmfg nfvSapp.,vkyuvfnvxra xfixvndvsa.vintafgvem.vm.voxuvra.akpxvaf
usxvpmkocafusvndvPnf nfv.ucxxu.qvNfxvtagsuvsmrxvuycfx vnfx’.vdmix
ybemc vafvusxv callpafgvcmafvmf vfnuaix vusxvipny .veausvdmafuvgpne
.yddy.x ,vkyuvesxusxcvauvem.vtnnfpagsuvdapuxcafgvuscnygsvkcnwxfvcmfw.
ndv carafgvrmbnc,vncvusxvgcmovndvusxv mef,vinyp vfnuvdncvmvuatxvsmrx
kxxfv xuxctafx q

Auvem.vmuvusa.vsnycvusmuvuenvtxfvexcxvbm..afgvafunvusmuvmfiaxfu
.ucxxuvndvusxviauovwfnefvm.vusxvNp vZxecoqvUsxacvsxm .vexcxvtyddpx 
afvusxacvipnmw.vncvimbx.;vusxacvfxmcxcvmct.vpniwx vm.vusxovempwx 
mkcxm.u,vmf vusxacv.uxb.vexcxvm.v.eaduvm.vauvem.vbn..akpxvunvumwxvaf
usxv mcwfx..qvUsxov.uytkpx vmpnfgveausnyuvmvpafwvpagsuvncvmvpmfusncfvun
.snevusxvsnpx.vafvusxvkcnwxfvbmrxtxfu.,vusxvuycf.vndv.ucxxu.vmf vnusxc
atbx atxfu.vmf vafucaimiax.vndvusxvemoqvAuvem.vfnuvnfpovyfy.ympvkyuvm
tmuuxcvunvxjiauxv.y.baianf,vdncvmfovbxc.nfveausvxrxfvusxvexagsuvndvmf
yfumuuxcx vinmuvnfvsa.vkmiwvunvrxfuycxvusy.vuscnygsvusxvhymcuxc.vdcnt
esaisvusx.xvuenvtxfvsm vintxqvSxcxvmf vusxcx,vmvpmfusncfvafvusxvsmf .
ndvmvkxpptmfvndvusxvfagsuvkpafwx vmf vemrxcx ;vmf v acxiupovkxdncx
usxt,vusxvdpmcafgvuncisvndvmvpafw-knov.snuvmv.saduafgvpagsuvmpnfg
kpmiw,v cabbafgv.snbvdcnfu.vmf v a.bpmox vusxvdagycx,vipn.xvdnppneafg
afvau.vemwx,vndvmv.npaumcovsnc.xtmfq

Fnvbmcuvndvusxviauovem.v xxtx v.mdxvmduxcvusxvimf px.,vkycfafgvafvusx
sncfvcxixbumipx.vkxdncxvusxv exppafg.vmf v.snb.,vexcxvxjuafgya.sx q
Usxvsnycvdncv.yisvxjuafgya.stxfuvem.vfafx;vmf vipn.xvdnppneafgvau,vnf
tnnfpx..vmf vdnggovfagsu.,vkpy gxnf-kxmcafgvusaxrx.va..yx vdcntvcxxwafg
mppxo.vafunvusxvbykpaiv.ucxxu.,vmf vm..mypux vkxpmux vbm..xc.qvUsx
kxpptmf,veausvsa.vdncta mkpxvsmpkxc ,vtagsuvcy.svesxcxvsxvsxmc vusx
icovndvusxvbxc.nfvm..mypux ,vkyuvpnfgvkxdncxvsxvcxmisx vusxv.bnuvsa.
pmfusncfvsm vemcfx vusxvm..mypuxc,vmf vfmygsuvkyuvusxvkpxx afgvraiuat,
eausvcadpx vbniwxu.,venyp vtxxuvsa.vgmlxq

Kyuvusxv.npaumcovusaxd,vncv.wypwafgvbmac.vndvcyddpxc.,vexcxvfnuvusx
nfpovtxfmixvmgmaf.uvfagsuvempw.qvKn ax.,vfytkxcafgv.ntxuatx.vmvsyf cx 
txf,vsmrafgvm..xtkpx vafv.ntxvnk.iycxv xf,venyp v.mppovdncusvmu
ta fagsuvmf vcnkvusxvsny.x.vndvesnt.nxrxcvexcxvcxbncux vunvsmrxvtnfxo
ncvucxm.ycxqvTyc xcvmuv.yisvuatx.,vxausxcvndv xdxf.xpx..viaualxf.vaf
fagsuvcnkx.veausafvusxacvsny.x.,vncvafnddxf.arxvyfdncuyfmux.v.uytkpafg
afunvusxvcmfw.vndvusxvpmepx..vicxe.,vem.vmvicatxvndvdcxhyxfuvniiyccxfixq

Usxvfxagskncsnn vndvusxvzyfiuanfvndvBnypucov.ucxxuvmf vusxv.ucxxuvnd
usxvNp vZxecovem.vmvdmrncauxvcxf xlrny.vndvusx.xvusaxrx.;vdncvusx
tmzncauovndvusxvbxc.nf.v.uaccafgvpmuxvmuvfagsuvafvusmuvpnimpauovem.
ndvusxvipm..vexmcafgvzxexp.vncvimccoafgvinaf,vmf vusxv.auymuanfvem.
dmrncmkpxvdncvcnkkafgveausnyuvsmlmc qvMuvusxvincfxcvndvusxvuenv.ucxxu.
nfxvinyp vinttmf vmvra.anfvdncvtmfovkpniw.vafv.xrxcmpv acxiuanf.qvUsx
tnrafgvpagsu.vndvusxvgymc amf.vndvusxvfagsuvinyp vusy.vkxvemuisx 
eausnyuvdxmcvndvusxvyfxjbxiux vmbbcnmisvndvusxvpmuuxcqvEsapxvnfxvusaxd
tagsuvkxvusy.vniiybax ,vsa.vdxppne.vinyp vsmpu,vm..mypuvmf vcnkvusx
afimyuany.vbm..xcqvUsxvpnduovkyap afg.vcxf xcx vusxv.sm ne.v xxbvybnf
usxvbmrxtxfu.vnfvmppvfagsu.,vmf vusxvea xvbncuainvndv.uqvNpmrx,veaus
au.vgcxmuvinpytf.,vtm xvmfvxjixppxfuvmtky.sqvKxsaf vusa.visycisvcmf
IyuuscnmuvPmfx--mvfmccnevmf vfxrxc-pagsux vmppxo,vafunvesaisvnfx,veaus
kyuvmvdxevdxxuvndv.xbmcmuanfvdcntvmvbyc.yafgvnddaixc,vinyp vxfuxc
mf vrmfa.svm.vusnygsv.emppnex vkovusxv.xmqvAuvem.vmvcnevndv.smiwpo
uxfxtxfu.,vdmiafgvnfxv.a xvndvusa.vmppxo,vusmuvusy.vgmrxvdcaxf po
ma qvUsxacv nnc.vexcxvmpemo.vmzmc,vxrxfvesxfveafuxcv.unct.vbcxrmapx ;
mf v.umac.,vm.ixf afgvunvafucaimuxvybbxcvsmpp.,vmf v x.ixf afgvafun
inffxiuafgvixppmc.,v.nnfvkmddpx vmppvbmfuafgvbyc.yxc.qvXrxfvusx
imyuany.vbnpaixvesn,vafv mouatx,vmuuxtbux vunvuscxm vusxvemo.vuscnygs
esaisv.ntxv x.bxcm nvsm vxpy x vbyc.yau,vexcxvinfdy.x veausvkpaf 
bm..mgx.vmf v myfux vkovmv mcwfx..vmf v.apxfixvusmuvatbncux vxrapq

Nfvusa.vbmcuaiypmcvfagsu,vdarxvusaxrx.vexcxvsmfgafgvpawxvucxtkpafg
.sm ne.vmknyuvusxvbncuainvndv.uqvNpmrxqvUsxvfagsuvem.vmptn.uv.bxfu
mf vfnuvnfxvgcnmuvsm vusxovcma.x qvMppvusxvbm..afgvgcnyb.vndvtxfvsm 
intbca.x vunnvtmfovtxtkxc.vunvemccmfuvmfovmuumiwvmf vusxvnfxv.npx
ucmrxpxc,vesntvusxovsm v.xalx vmuvusxvtnyusvndvIyuuscnmuvPmfxvbcnrx 
unvkxvmvkxggmcqvSa.vyfinf.iany.vkn ovfnevpmovdmixv nefemc vafvusxvty 
ndvusmuvpmfxqvUsxvismfixvndvsa.vcxinrxcovdcntvusxvkpnevndvnfxvndvusx
 a.mbbnafux vcnkkxc.vem.vmvhyx.uanfvdncvusxv niunc.q

Esmuvky.afx..vsm vkxggmc.vunvkxvmkcnm vmuvusxvsnycvesxfvgxfupxtxfvexcx
cxuycfafgvdcntvfagsupovcxrxp.?vEsnvinyp v a.uafgya.svmvcmggx vipnmw
dcntvnfxvx gx veausvgnp vafv.yisv mcwfx..?vGxfupxtxfvusaxrx.vexcxvfnu
unvkxvpagsupovatbn.x vybnfqvMvrmcpxuvesnvsm.vfnvmfgxp.vafvsa.vbniwxu.
.snyp vkxvmkx vmuv mcwqvDncv.yisvusxv.pxxbvusmuvwfne.vfnvemwafgva.vm
kpx..afgqvUsa.vem.vusxvmcgytxfuvndvusxvtxfvesnvsm vsmpux vusxvkxggmcq

M.vusxvuenvtxf,vesn.xv.uxb.vexvsmrxvkxxfvdnppneafg,vxfuxcx vusxvNp 
Zxeco,vusxacvmbbcnmisvem.vmvtmuuxcvndvfnuaix,vmf vm.vusxovcxmisx vm
.bnuv acxiupovkxdncxvusxvisycis,vuscxxvndvusxvusaxrx.v.bcmfgvnyuvndvusx
.sm ne.vndvau.vbcnzxiuafgvxfucmfixqvUsxvmuumiwvimtxv.nvyfxjbxiux po
usmuvusxvuenvtxfvsm vfnvismfixvdncvdpagsu,vmf v.mdxuov.xxtx vunvpax
nfpovafv.yisvxddncuqvAfvusxvdac.uvgcmbbpx,vusxvumppxcvtmf’.vipnmwvem.
uncfvdcntvsat,vkyuvusa.vem.vndvdncuyfmuxvniiyccxfix,vdncvauvxfmkpx 
satvunv cmevsa.v.enc qvSa.vintbmfanfvsm vkxxfvdxppx vunvsa.vwfxx.,
kyu,vmrna afgvmfnusxcvkpnevmatx vmuvsa.vsxm ,vsxvcn.xvunvsa.vdxxuvmf 
.umggxcx vunvnfxv.a xqvUsxv cmefv.enc vndvsa.vdcaxf v.eyfgvuscnygsvusx
macqvAuviyuvmvdmixvea xvnbxfvafvau.vimcxxc,vmf vem.vmgmafveaxp x vaf
pawxvtmffxc,vkyuveausnyuvxddxiuqvUsxfvusxvenyf x vcnkkxcv.xalx vusx
wfxx.vndvusxv.enc .tmf,vnfpovunvkxvuscy.uvuscnygsvmf vuscnygs,vm.vusx
pmuuxcv.uytkpx vmf vdxppvafvusxvxtkcmixq

Afvusxvtxmfuatx,vusxvnusxcvtmfvm..mapx ,vuyggafgvmuvusxvsapuvndvsa.
nefv.enc vesaisvem.vwxbuvdcntvsmf oveaus cmempvkovusxvdnp .vndvsa.
ipnmw,vcxucxmux vkmiwemc vafunvusxvta  pxvndvusxv.ucxxuqvMbbcnmisafg
satvem.vusxvcnkkxcvesnvsm v xparxcx vusxvdac.uvafxddxiuympvkpneqvAfvusx
uy..pxvsxvsm v cnbbx vsa.vkpy gxnf,vmf vsxvem.vfnevucy.uafgvunvsa.vnef
.ucxfgusvunvnrxcbnexcvusa.vtmfvkxdncxvsatqv.y  xfpovmfnusxcv.enc vem.
nyuvndvau.v.imkkmc qvUsxcxvem.vmvhyaiwvuscy.uvmuvusxv mcwvkn ovkxuexxf
nyu.ucxuisx vsmf .vesaisvsm vmptn.uvgcm.bx vusxv.enc .tmf’.vfxiwqvM
gcnmfvx.imbx vdcntvmgnfalx vpab.,vmf vusxveaxp xcvndvusxv.enc vdxpu
emctvkpnn vybnfvsa.v.enc vsmf qvSa.vraiuatvsm vdmppxfvsxmrapovmgmaf.u
sat,vkyuvsxvby.sx vsatvnddvpawxv.nvtyisv xm vexagsu,vmf vmuvusmuvtntxfu
sxvsxmc vsa.vdcaxf ’.vrnaix:

“Cyf,vWau,vdncvusovpadx!”

“Avmtveausvony,”vimtxvusxvmf.excq

Sxv.mevusmuvuenvnusxcv.sm ne.vsm vznafx vusxv xiatmux vgcnybqvUsx.xvuen
sm vkxxfv cne.afgvnfvusxvbncuain,vmf vmuvpxfgus,vmcny.x vkovusxvicax.,
sm vintxvdncusqvSxv.mevsa.vintbmfanfvuycfvmf vcyf,vmf vsxvdnppnex vsatq

Usxvpagsu.vndvusxveaf tappvumrxcfv.ucxmtx vmicn..vusxvemo,vdncvau.
 nnc.vexcxvnbxfqvUsxovcxmisx vusxvdcnfuafgvbappmc.vndvau.vbncuain,vm.
usnygsvmvsmrxf,vmf vusxfvbmy.x qvKnusvndvusxtvwfxevusmuvusxovinyp vfnu
rxfuycxvaf,vmf vdncuyfmuxpovusxacvm..mapmfu.vsm vgarxfvybvusxvism.xq

Afvusxvgpnnt,vkxsaf vnfxvndvusxvinpytf.,vusxov.unn vbmfuafgqvFxmcvusxt
.unn vmvtmfvmp.nvafvusxv.sm ne.qvUsxacv.eaduvmbbcnmisvsm vkxxfvnk.xcrx 
kovsat;vkyuvadvsxvsm vmbbcxsxf x vusxvimy.x,vauvsm vfnuv.smwxfvsatvdcnt
sa.vafuxfuvunvcxtmafvinfixmpx qvSxvtagsuvsmrxvsxmc vusxvcxucxmuafg
dnnu.uxb.vndvusxacvfnevkmddpx vbyc.yxc.,vmf vusa.v.snyp vsmrxv a.uyckx 
sat;vdncvusxvimy.xvndvusxvtxfvesnvsm vmptn.uvkcy.sx vmgmaf.uvsatvem.
sa.vimy.xqvAuvem.vsa.v yuovunvbyc.yxvusxvm..mapmfu.;vkyuvusxcxvmcx
uatx.vesxfvusxvbykpaivexmpva.vdncgnuuxf--kpnuux vnyuvkovusnygsu.vnd
nfx’.vbcarmuxvexpdmcxqvMf v.nvauvem.veausvusxvtmfvafvusxv mcwfx..vnd
usxvbncuainqvUsxvinfuafymfixvndvsa.vmkapauovunvmiuvdncvusxvbykpai,vfmo,
bn..akpovsa.vxja.uxfix,v xbxf x vnfv addxcxfuv.xcraixvusmfvusxvmccx.u
ndvta fagsuvtmcmy xc.q

Usa.vtmfvem.vGorx.,vusxvinf.umkpx,vmf vsxvem.vemauafgvunv.xxvKmtxvpxmrx
usxvumrxcfv.nvusmuvsxvtagsuvrxfuycxvaf,vdaf vUmkkmc ,vmf vnkumafvko
bxc.ym.anfvncvranpxfixvusxvemccmfuvdncvusxvmccx.uvndvTmcpnexqvSxvsm 
emaux vusxcxvdncvsnyc.,vuscnygsvusxvta.uvesaisvsm v cadux vmicn..vusx
bncuain,vmf vusxfvpmuxc,vesapxvusxv callpafgvcmafvsm vkxmuxfvafvsa.
dmixvmf v.xuvsatv.sarxcafgqvSxvsm voxuvfnvwfnepx gxvndvusxv x.ucyiuanf
ndvusxvecau,vmf vfnvesa.bxcvndvusxv.y  xfvra.auvndvusxvbpmgyxvsm 
unyisx vsa.vxmc.qv.nvauvem.vusmuvusxvbmbxc,vybnfvesaisvsxv cxmtx 
sa.vexpdmcxvsyfg,vmf vusxvtmfvesntvsxvsm vdncvusxvbm.uvxagsuvsnyc.
oxmcfx vtn.uvunv.xx,vexcxvknusvkxonf vbnexcvndvbcn yiuanfvunvsatq
Kyuv x.bauxvmppvusa.,vusxvmccx.uvndvTmcpnex,vesaisvem.vsa.vypuatmux
nkzxiu,vcxhyacx vmuvusmuvtntxfuvfxausxcvusxv xbmcuycxvndvKmtxvfnc
sa.vbn..x..anfvndvusxvecauqvMf vdycusxctncxvfnvpnfgvexmcovempwvfnc
uacx.ntxv.xmcisvafvmfvyfdmtapamcvhymcuxcvenyp vsmrxvkxxfvfxix..mcoqvSx
inyp vsmrxvcxmisx vnyuvsa.vsmf vmf vsmrxvmccx.ux vusxvuenvtxfvyf xc
usxvfxagskncafgvinpytfvdncvmv a.uyckmfixvndvusxvbxmixqvXrxfvusxfvm
.enc vem.vkxafgv.sxmusx vkovnfxvndvusxt,vmf vGorx.vsm vsxmc vusxvpmux
nyuicovesaisvndvau.xpdvem.v.yddaiaxfuvunvsmrxvzy.uadax vsatvafvumwafg
usxtvafunviy.un ovunvmemauvdycusxcvafrx.uagmuanfqvNfxvndvusxvtxfvem.
Isca.unbsxcvTmcpnexq

Unvy.,veausvnycvpataux vra.anf,vesmuvmvintx ova.vpadxqvNrxcvesmuv.ixfx.
ndvtxccatxfuvinyp vexvfnuvmty.xvnyc.xprx.vexcxvexvcnkkx vndvsxmcu.
mf vinf.iaxfix.vmf vusxcxvexcxvm  x vunvnycvcxtmafafgvdmiypuax.vusx
bnexcvndvyfpataux v.agsuvmpnfx;vunv.xxvusxv.ucyggpx.vndvnfxv ycafgvm
esnpxvpadxvdncvmvcx.ypuvesaisvcxhyacx vnfpovmvdxev mo.’vxddncuvmpnfg
mfnusxcvpafxvusmfvusmuvbyc.yx ;vunv.xxvusxvxfumfgpxtxfu,vafvmv.afgpx
exk,vndvtmfoveausvencusov x.agf.,vmf vusxacv.ucyggpx.vpakxcmuafgvnfpo
usmuvnfxvesnvm.vauvmbbxmcx vunvy.v.snyp vsmrxvcxtmafx vxfumfgpx ;vun
.xxvusxvpadxvbyc.yauvdncvmveapp-n’-usx-ea.b;vunv.xxvgxfay.v.ucmfgpx ,
mf v yppfx..vucaytbsmfuqvBxcsmb.vusxvucyusvenyp vusxfvkyc.uvybnfvy.,
usmuvexvmcxvkyuvusxvbmef.vmf vwfagsu.vndvusxvisx..-knmc ,vtnrx vkovmf
Ntfa.iaxfuvsmf vunemc vusxvdafmpvraiuncovndvusxvesnpxq

M.vusxvuscxxvtxfvsxp vkmiwvafvusxv.sm ne.,vuscxxvtncxvtxfvimtxvdncus
dcntvusxvbncump.vndvusxvumrxcf;vkyuvnfpovuenvndvusxtvempwx qvUsxvusac 
em.vkxuexxfvusxvnusxc.,vkyuvaf.uxm vndvkxafgvpawxvusxt,vxcxiu,vsxvem.
afvmvsncalnfumpvbn.auanfqvSxvpmovybnfvmv.ucxuisxcvesaisvusxvuenvtxf
kncxqvSxvem.vtnuanfpx..,vmf vmvcnygsvipnusvinrxcx vsa.vdnctq

Ixcumafvauvem.vusmuvusxvinrxcafgvndvusxvtmfvybnfvusxv.ucxuisxc
.snyp vsmrxvinfixmpx vsa.vdmix,vkyuvuscnygsv.ntxvafm rxcuxfiovauvsm 
cnppx v nefvybnfvsa.vkcxm.uv.nvusmuvsa.vdmixvem.vcxrxmpx qvAuvem.
xjbcx..anfpx..vmf vusmuvndvnfxvdcntvesntvusxv.nypvsm vdpx qvMvtmfveaus
dpmtafgvuncisvfnevcmfvnyuvndvusxv nnc.,vm.vusnygsvunvpxm vusxvemo,vmf 
m.vusxvpagsuv.ucyiwvybnfvusxvdnctvybnfvusxv.ucxuisxc,vnfxvndvusxvuen
txfvesnvsm vx.imbx vusxvtyc xcny.,vkpy gxnf.vndvusxvusaxrx.,vipyuisx 
sa.vintbmfanf’.vmctvmf vgm.bx :

“TovGn !vusxv xm vtmfva.vUmkkmc q”

Usxf,vm.vusxvdpmtafgvuncisvappytafmux vusxvtmfvafvdcnfu,vesn,veausvkmiw
unemc vusxvincb.x,vkncxvusxv.ucxuisxc,vTmcpnex,vdncvsxvem.vusxv.bxmwxc,
.yfwvsa.vdafgxc.v xxbvafunvusxvipyuisx vmct,vdncvmuvusmuvtntxfuvsx
sxmc vmvrnaixvfxmcvsatvesa.bxc:

“Mf vKmtx,vCaismc vKmtx,vimccax.vsatq”

Mv.sm ne,v.saduafgveausvusxvemrxcafgvndvusxvuncis,vdxppvmicn..
Tmcpnex’.vdmixqvUsxvpmuuxcvpnnwx vunvm.ixcumafvau.vimy.xvmf vmp.n
usxv.nycixvndvusxvpm.uvenc .v.bnwxf,vmf v.mevusxvnyupafxvndvmvtmfvaf
usxvinmuvndvmfvnddaixcv.pafwvdcntvusxvbncuainvafunvusxvcmafvmf vusx
 mcwfx..qvUsxvuncisvfnevcxrxmpx vmfvnkzxiuvipn.xvunvusxvx gxvndvusx
bmrxtxfuqvAuvem.vmvsxmrovimcuveausvsnc.x.vmuumisx vpawxvusxvnfxvesais
sm vbm..x vUmkkmc vxmcpovusmuvfagsuqvSa.vkn ovem.vkxafgvkncfxvunemc 
auq




AFvUSXvBCAFIX’.vEMC CNKXq

vvvv_Kyuv.umo,vesmuv.umcv.safx.vonf xcvafvusxvXm.u?_

vvvv--_ZxevndvTmpum,vaa,v1q_

vvvv_Kyuv.ndu:vesmuvpagsuvuscnygsvonf xcveaf nevkcxmw.?_
vvvv_Auva.vusxvXm.u--_

vvvv--_Cntxnvmf vZypaxu,vaa,v2q_


Tmcpnexvmf vUmtencusvfnevdnppnex vusxvxjmtbpxvndvusxvinf.umkpxvmf ,
smrafgvtnrx v.apxfupovmpnfgvusxv.ucxxu,vafvmvdxevtntxfu.vexcxvafvusx
ea xvmf v mcwvsmppvndvmvpmcgxvkyap afgvfxmcvusxvisycisvndv.uqvNpmrxq

“Snp vunvtovmct,”v.ma vUmtencus,v“Usa.va.vusxvBcafix’.vEmc cnkxq”

“Mf vxfuxcx veausnyuvuycfafgv.nvtyisvm.vmvwfnkvncvpaduafgvmvpmuis,”
cx.bnf x vTmcpnexq

“SxcxvexvipatkvusxvWafg’.v.umacim.x,”v.ma vUmtencus,vm.vnfxvndvsa.
m rmfiafgvdxxuv.ucyiwvmgmaf.uvmfvnk.umipxq

Usxvtncfvem.vkcxmwafg,vkyuvusxvafuxcancvndvusxvkyap afg,vmpusnygs
nbxfvmf veaf .exbu,vem.vecmbbx vafvyuuxcv mcwfx..qvFnygsuvinyp vkx
 a.uafgya.sx vndvusxvkcnwxfvinpytf.v nefvusxvpnfgvsmpp,vusxvux..xpmux 
bmrxtxfuvyf xcvdnnu,vusxvtmccx vdcx.inx.vndvusxvempp.,vusxvkpmiwxfx 
.uyiinvndvusxvixapafg.,vusxv.npa v.umacim.xveausvsxmrov.unfxvkmpy.ucm x
m.ixf afgvunvmvta  pxvpmf afgqvNfixvusxvbcafiabmpvbmpmixvndvWafgvSxfco
RA,vauvsm vpnfgv.afixvkxxfvcxtn xpx vmf vm mbux vunvbpxkxamfvy.x.q
Auvsm.vxrxfv.ycrarx vau.vdaufx..vdncvusxvpmuuxcv.sadu.,vmf vbmcuamppo
 a.tmfupx vkovtmfvmf vcyafx vkovuatxvauv.unn v.atbpovm.vmvpmf tmcwvnd
usxvdnycuxxfusvixfuycoq

Usxvdxevenc .vndvusxvpmeoxcv.xuvtnrafgvuscnygsvusxvbnxu’.vtaf vmvra.anf
ndv.bpxf a vbmgxmfucoqvUsxvgcxmuvsmppvcn.xvnyuvndv.sm ne,vkcagsuveaus
usxvappytafmuanfvndvmvusny.mf vpmtb.,vmf vmicn..vau.v.safafgvdpnncvmf 
ybvmf v nefvusxvtmckpxv.umacemovtnrx vdagycx.vcx.bpxf xfuvafvusxvbntb
ndvcnompuo--txfvndvtmgfadaixfuvtaxfvafvipnmw.vndvipnusvndvgnp vmf 
emrafgvbpytx.;vinycuv.oinbsmfu.veausvicafgafgv.snyp xc.vyf xcvusxac
caisvtmfupx.;vipnef.vafvimbvmf vkxpp.vmf v.bmfgpx.;vdmacvpm ax.vaf
cxgmpvcnkx.,vusxacvdmix.vkxmyuadypvafvonyus,vncvgcneafgvhyxxfpoveaus
usxvtmcw.vndvmgxqvMppvexcxvcma.x vm.vmuvmvtm.hyxvyf xcvusxv.agfmpvnd
usxvTm.uxcvndvusxvCxrxp.q

Mf vusa.vafuxcancv.ixfx,vdcntvesaisvwafg.,vinycuaxc.vmf vusxvdmacx.u
mf vtn.uventmfpovndventxfvexcxvunvkxv cmefvdncvmppvuatx,vem.vfnuvsa.
nfpovra.anfvndvusxvuytypuyny.vbm.uqvNyu.a x,vmgmaf,vZmiwvIm x,veaus
sa.vcxkxp.,vWxfua.svbxm.mfu.,vcmggx vtxf aimfu.vmf v.umcrxpafg.vndvusx
mppxo.,v.exbuv xdamfupovuscnygsvusxvNp vZxecovmf vsmpux veausv xmdxfafg
ybcnmcvkxdncxvusxvkmccaim x vxfucmfixqvUsxcxvmuvusxacvsxm ,vsxv.mevusx
“.smg-smacx vicmduovwxcfx”vmf ,vipn.xvbcx..afgvsat,vusxvpxmusxc-mbcnfx 
.taus.vmf vsx gx-kncfvsaf .,vmewemc v.np axc.vndvusxv mo’.vxfpa.utxfu,
dcntvesn.xvkm.xvpab.vmppvusxv cnppxcax.vndvusxv.xmtov.a xvndvpadxvexcx
unva..yxq

Mf vsx,vusxvtmgaivicxmuncvndvdnct.vtncxvbmpbmkpxvmf vxf ycafgvusmf
usn.xvndvipmo,vgcnbafgvafvusxv mcwfx..vesaisvtagsuvfxrxcvkxvpadux ,vem.
usy.vkxgaffafgvusxvinfzycmuanfvndvusxvxrxcpm.uafgq

“Tmcpnex,”vxjipmatx vUmtencus,vfnuaiafgvusxvpmiwvndvbcx..ycxvnfvsa.
mct,vmf vsa.vdcaxf ’.vdmpuxcafgvdnnu.uxb.qv“Onyv cmgvonycvdxxuvm.
usnygsvafv.pxxbqv.xx,vusxvipny .vmcxvkcxmwafgvmf vusxvgcmovndvusxv mef
a.vmknyuvy.q”

Usxovexcxvbm..afgvmpnfgvmfvybbxcvincca nc,vmf vmuvau.vxf ,vuscnygsvusx
gpm..px..v.bmix.vkxuexxfvusxvtyppanf.vndvmvpmfixuveaf ne,vmvgpnevem.
.bcxm afgv.nvusmuvusxvcxmcvgmkpx.vndvusxvcnevndvsny.x.vnfvusxvPnuskyco
inyp vkxv.xxfv.smwafgvusxt.xprx.vdcxxvndvusxvtycwovmacqvMknrxvusxac
.uxmtafgvcnnd.,v.pxf xcvinpytf.vndv.tnwxvexcxvca.afgvdcntvusxvinp 
tnyus.vndvisatfxo.,vmf vxmcpovdacx.vtm xvgpxmtafgv.bnu.vnfvtmfovndvusx
 a.umfuvempp.qvUsxvpm.uvexuvgy.uvndvusxv.unctvsm v.bpm.sx vybnfvusx
nbxfvim.xtxfuvuscnygsvesaisvfnevimtx,vpawxvmvkxfa.nf,vusxvbycxvkcxmus
ndvtncfafgq

 nefvusxvincca ncvusxovuycfx ,vmf ,vmuvpxfgusvsmpux ,vesapxvUmtencus
eausvmvgcxmuvwxovesaisvsxvsm vumwxfvdcntvmv.yfwxfvfaisxvafvusxvempp,
yfpniwx vmf v.eyfgvnbxfvmvfmccnev nncqvUscnygsvusa.vusxovxfuxcx vmf
mbmcutxfuvesn.xv.afgpxveaf nev a vfnuvoxuvm tauvxfnygsvpagsuvunvcxf xc
 a.uafiupovra.akpxvusxvafuxcancqvUsxvmacvem.vinp vmf v mtb,vmf vdncvusx
tntxfuvusxvbpmixv.xxtx vm.vgpnntovm.vmvrmypuqvUmtencusvsm.uapovpagsux 
mvpmtb,vesaisvmuvdac.uvdpmtx vybemc veausvkpmiwv.tnwx,vmf vm.vauv a v.n
Tmcpnexvgpmfiafgvmcnyf vsat,vyuuxcx vmfvxjipmtmuanfvndv.ycbca.xq

“Onyvfnuaixvusmuv.ntxusafgvtncxvusmfvmvtxcxvrx.uagxvndvbm.uvcxgmp
.bpxf ncvcxtmaf.vsxcx,”v.ma vUmtencus,v.tapafgq

“Eso,vAv.snyp vzy gxvusmuvusxv nncvsm vzy.uvipn.x vybnfvusxv xbmcuycx
ndvusxvbcafixq”

“Mvsyf cx voxmc.vmgn,”vmf.excx vUmtencusq

“Mf --”vkxgmfvsa.vintbmfanfq

“Sm.vcxtmafx vrmimfuvyfuapvAvxfuxcx vm.vau.vniiybmfuq”

“Esovusa.vpnfgv a.y.x?”

“Auva.vafvmvcxuacx veafgvndvusxvkyap afgqvNfpovuenvwxxbxc.vsmrxvsm 
ismcgxv.afixvusxvIcnefvbmcux veausvau.vuaupxqvUsxvdac.u,vdcntvesmuvtmo
smrxvkxxfvmfvnrxc-cxdafx vcxrxcxfixvdncvcnompuo,vsxp vusa.vmbmcutxfu
pniwx vmf vmptn.uv.xicxuqvSa.v.yiix..ncvdnyf vfnvy.xvdncvauvyfuapvA
.npaiaux vpn gtxfuqvSxvgmrxvtxvbn..x..anfvdarxvoxmc.v.afixq”

“Auva.vmvenf xcvusmuvusxvumbx.ucax.vsmrxvfnuvkxxfvcxtnrx ,”v.ma 
Tmcpnex,vpnnwafgvafvm tacmuanfvmuvnfxvxf vndvusxvcnntvesxcxvsyfgvuen
tmgfadaixfuvdmkcai.,v.uappv a.bpmoafgvafvxf ycafgvinpnc.v.ixfx.vdcnt
usxvMbnimpob.xqvUsxovexcxv cmefvkmiwvdcntvusxvta  pxvpafxvndvusx
mpinrxvkxdncxvesaisvusxovsyfg;vmf ,vafvusxvcxix..vusy.v a.ipn.x ,
usxvnyupafx.vndvmvkx ,veausvgncgxny.vimfnbovnrxcsmfgafgvau,vinyp vkx
.xxfqvNusxcvuxjuapx.vndvxhymppovmfuahyxvtmfydmiuycx,vmuvtmfovbnafu.
 xumisx vdcntvusxvdm.uxfafg.,vsyfgvsxcxvmf vusxcxvmgmaf.uvusxvempp.q
.xbmcmuxvbaxix.vndvNcaxfumpvimcbxuvpmovnrxcv.ntxv.bmix.vndvusxvdpnncq
Usxvdycfauycxvem.v mcwvm.vxknfoqvMvpmtbvndvkcm..,veausvdnycvbcnzxiuafg
eafg.vmf vkpmiwxfx vismaf.,v.y.bxf x vdcntvusxvixfuxcvndvusxvixapafgq
Usxv xxbvmf vea xvisatfxo-bpmixvem.vdauvdncvmvdacxvgcxmuvxfnygsvun
emctvusxvkmfhyxuafgvsmppvndvmvim.upxqvAu.vtmfuxpvem.v.ybbncux vko
xpmkncmuxpovimcrx vinpytf.v.umf afgvsmpdvnyuvdcntvusxvdcnfuvndvusx
isatfxo-emppq

“Mf vesxcxv nx.vusmuv.umacemovpxm ?”vm.wx vTmcpnex,vbnafuafgvmuvmv mcw
nbxfafgvafvusxvdpnncvkx.a xvnfxvemppqvAuvem.vgymc x vkovmvkcm..vcmapafg
cma.x vema.u-sagsvnfvmvipn.xpov.xuvkmpy.ucm x,vmf vmuvau.vdnnuvinyp vkx
.xxfvmv.npa v nncvsxp v.syuvkovmfvacnfvkmcvmicn..vau.vdmixq

“Unvmfvyf xcgcnyf vbm..mgxemoq”

“Dncvx.imbx?”

“Xra xfupoq”

“Mf vxf .vesxcx?”

“Yf xcvmvtmckpxv.pmkvesaisvty.uvkxv.ntxesxcxvafvusxvismfixpvndvusx
isycisvndv.uqvNpmrxqvAvsmrxvbm..x vmpnfgvauvtxm.ycafgvusxv a.umfixq”

“Kyuvfxrxcva..yx vmuvusxvnusxcvxf ?”

“FnqvUsxv.pmkva.vipn.xpov.xuvafvau.vbpmix,vkyuvauvsmusvsafgx.vnfvau.
pnexcv.a xq”

“Mf vnfvau.vybbxcv.a x,vAv nykuvfnu,”v.ma vTmcpnexvacnfaimppo,v“mcxvusx
enc .vafvdmacvpxuuxc.v‘Unyisvfnuvtafxvmffnafux ’?”

“Bn..akpo,”vcxznafx vUmtencusq

“Advusxvwafgvxrxcvcn.xvdcntvusxvgcmrx,”v.ma vTmcpnex,v.tapafg,v“A
atmgafxvusmuvsxvunnwvgcxmuvbmaf.vunvinfixmpvauq”

“Usxcxva.vfnvucm auanfvusmuvusa.vcnntvem.vxrxcvniiybax vkovmvwafgvnc
mvbcafix;vkyuvesmuvAvwfnevndvusxvpadxvmf vismcmiuxcvndvusxvexmwvmf 
yfdncuyfmuxvtnfmcis,vSxfcovusxv.ajus,vumwxfvafvinffxiuanfveausvusx
mccmfgxtxfuvndvusa.vcnntvmf vau.vm znafafgv.xicxuvismtkxc,vinfrafix.vtx
usmuvmvicnefx vsxm vnfixvcx.ux vnfvusxvkx veausafvusxvmpinrxq”

“Ms,vusxv.xicxuvcnntva.vmfvncmunco,va.vau?”

“Onyv.ycbca.xvtx,”vxjipmatx vUmtencus,v“snevinyp vusmuvsmrxvcxmisx 
onycvxmc.?”

“Av.atbpovafdxccx vau,vdncvAvixcumafpov nvfnuvusafwvusmuvusxv.xicxu
uyffxpvafunvusxvismfixpvem.vdncvusxvbycbn.xvndvxm.ovmuuxf mfixvybnf
 arafxv.xcraixq”

Umtencusv.tapx ,vmf vTmcpnexvinfuafyx v.bxmwafg:

“Avwfxevndvusxvatkxiapauovndvusmuvbcafixvmf vusxv.ucxfgusvndvsa.
cxpagany.v xrnuanf;vmf vfmuycmppovafvtovtaf vem.vcma.x vusxvbaiuycxvnd
mvencp -exmcovwafgvafvbxfauxfuampvixppq”

“Onyvmcxvcagsu,”vcxuycfx vusxvpmeoxcqv“.xxq”

Sxvbmcux vusxvsxmrovmf venct-xmuxfvsmfgafg.v.y.bxf x vdcntvusx
ncfmtxfumpvincfaixvndvusxvemppvkx.a xvusxvbmafux veaf neqvUsxvnyupafx
ndvesmuvmbbxmcx vunvkxvmvemppx veaf nevmbbxmcx qvAu.v.app,vpawxvusmu
ndvusxvnfxvusmuvem.vnbxfvmf vyfinrxcx ,vem.vnfpovmvdnnuvmknrxvusx
dpnncqvSxvbcx..x vnfvnfxvndvusxvtyppanf.,vesais,vmpusnygsvmbbmcxfupo
kpniwx veausv.unfxvnfvknusv.a x.,vcxtmafx v.umf afgvnyuvdcntvusx
.ycdmixvndvusxvemppqvUsa.v.ycdmixvcnppx vafemc vm.vsxvbcx..x qvUsx
nbxfafgvem.vea xvxfnygsvunvm tauvusxvbm..afgvndvmvtmfvafv.unnbafg
bn.uycxq

“Intx,”v.ma vUmtencusq

Sxv.uxbbx vybnfvusxv.unfxv.app,vmf vm.vTmcpnex,vsnp afgvkmiwvusxvty.uo
umbx.ucovdncvmvtntxfu,vbcx..x vipn.xvafvsa.vemwx,vsxvxfuxcx vmv.tmpp
cnntq

Usxovexcxvafvesmuvem.vixcumafpovmv xrnuanfmpvismtkxcqvKxdncxvusxtvaf
usxvixfuxcvemppvndvmv.xta-iaciypmcvcxix..,vncvxjx cm,vem.vmvgap x 
icyiadajvafvkm.-cxpaxdqvMv.unfxvimfnbovxjuxf x vdcntvusxvunbvndvusa.
cxix..,vmf vem.v.uappvdcafgx veausvsxmrovkpmiwvrxprxuqvMuvusxvknuuntvnd
usxvcxix..vem.vmvbpmudnctv.pagsupovcma.x vmknrxvusxvdpnncvndvusxvcnntq
Nfxvinyp vatmgafxvusmuvusa.vpnevmtknvkncxvusxvatbcafu.vndvusxvwfxx.vnd
usxvcnompvbxfauxfuq

Usxvixapafgvem.v ntx-.smbx vnrxcsxm ,vm.v.xrxcxvafvau.v.tnnusfx..vmf 
mk.xfixvndvucmixcovm.vusxv.ybbncuafgvempp.,vesaisveausnyuviycrmuycx,
dcnfux vxmisvnusxcveausvmv.bmixvkxuexxfvndvuexfuovdxxuvafvpxfgusvmf 
uexprxvafvkcxm usqvAfvusxvdmixvndvnfxvempp,vfxmcvusxvdpnnc,vem.vmv mcw
imrauo,veausvmfvacnfvkm.wxuveausafvau,vdncvusxvtmafuxfmfixvndvdacx
 ycafgvbcnpnfgx v.xpd-inttyfanfqvMvpxmusxc-inrxcx vinyisv.unn vafvnfx
incfxc,vmf vkxdncxvauvsyfgvmvpmtbvafvcy.uovismaf.qvMfvacnfvumkpx,
eausvpxg.vinrxcx veausvxpmkncmuxv.icnppencw,v.unn vmuvusxvxf vndvusx
cnntvdycusx.uvdcntvusxvinyisqvYbnfvau.vunbvem.vmvgcxmuvkpmiw-pxuuxcx 
TmlmcafvKakpx,vmf vkx.a xvauvem.vmv.npa v.hymcx-.xmux vismacveausvsags
imcrx vkmiwqvMknrxvusa.vumkpxvsyfgvmvpmtbv.atapmcvunvusxvnfxvfxmcvusx
inyis;vmf vafvusxv.tnwovemppvkxsaf vauvem.vmv.hymcxveaf nevinrxcx 
eausvmfvacnfvpmuuaixqvUsxv.ucab.vndvusxvpmuuaixvexcxvfmccne,vmf vfnu
ipn.xpovicn..x ,v.nvusmuvusxvxfucmfixvndv mopagsuvem.vpauupxvsaf xcx q
Kyuvfnv.yf.safxvinyp vxfuxc,vdncvuenvkyuucx..x.vxjuxf x vdmcvkxonf vau.
xjuxcancvdmix,vusy.vinfixmpafgvauvdcntvusxvgpmfixvndvrmgcmfuvxox.vaf
usxvfmccnevisycis-omc vndv.uqvNpmrxqvAuvpnnwx vybnfvusmuv.xp nt-ra.aux 
kyuvusaiw-uxfmfux vbaxixvndvkycamp-xmcusq

“.nvusxcxvusxvwafgvbcmox ,”vtyctycx vTmcpnex,vbnafuafgvunemc vusx
icyiadaj,vesapxvUmtencusvfn  x q

“Mf vusxcxvsxvcx.ux ?”vinfuafyx vTmcpnex,vuycfafgvsa.vgmlxvunemc vusx
inyisqvFnvcxbpovimtxvdcntvUmtencus,vesn,veausv.m vxjbcx..anfvnfvsa.
dmix,vcxtmafx vmvpa.uxfxcq

“Mf vusxcxvsxv.uy ax vmf vtx aumux vybnfvusxvtyumkapauovndvencp po
usafg.,”vm  x vUmtencus,v.npxtfpo,vm.vknusvgpmfix vafvusxv acxiuanfvnd
usxvismacvmf vKakpxq

“.uy o,vtx aumuanf,vbcmoxc,vmf v.pytkxc,”vcxbxmux vTmcpnex,vm.vusnygs
unvsat.xpdq

“Nfixvusxvniiybmuanfvndvmvwafg,”v.ma vUmtencusq

“Mf ,”vm  x vusxvnusxc,v“tafxvmp.nvyfuapv xmusq”

vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*

Umtencusvem.vmcny.x vdcntvmvtncfafgv.pxxbvkovusxvbcx..ycxvndvmvsmf 
ybnfvsa.v.snyp xcqvSxvem.vpoafgvyf cx..x vybnfvusxvkx veausafvusx
mpinrxvesxcxvsxvsm vuscnefvsat.xpdvmduxcvusxvaf.bxiuanfvndvusxv.xicxu
ncmuncoqvSxvsm vrmafpovxf xmrncx vunvaf yixvTmcpnexvunvgmafvcx.uvko
.pytkxc;vkyuvusxvpmuuxcvsm vmpuxcfmuxpovempwx vusxvdpnncvmf vniiybax 
mvismacvkxdncxvusxveaf neqvSa.vcx.upx..fx..vndvtaf vem.v.uappvkxonf 
infucnpqvUsxvdmafuvdagycx.vndvusxvmfgxp.vnfvusxvumbx.ucax.,vusxv.icnpp
encwvnfvusxvisatfxo-inpytf.,vusxv cmgnfvsxm vdcntvesn.xvtnyusvimtxvusx
pmtbvismaf.,vmf vusxvgcxxfvucxx.veausafvusxvinycuomc ,vmuucmiux vsa.
muuxfuanfvnfpovuxtbncmcapoqv.ucnfgxcvusmfvusx.xvnkzxiu.vbcx.xfux vun
sa.vkn apovxox.vexcxvusxvtaf ’.vbaiuycx.vndvusxvxrxfudypvfagsu:vsa.
txxuafgveausvMffx,vusxv.enc vintkmu,vusxv.ucabbafgvndvusxv.pmaf,vusx
infdxcxfixvmuvusxvKnmc’.vSxm ,vusxv xm vdmixvndvUmkkmc ,vmf vsa.vdyuycx
bpmixvndv.uy oqvSxvinyp vfnuv.syuvusxtvnyu;vmf veausvusxtvexcxvucnykpx 
usnygsu.vinfixcfafgvMffxqvUsxvsnyc.vbm..x ;vsxvemuisx vusxvyfkcnwxf
.pytkxcvndvsa.vdcaxf ,vmf ,vmuvpxfgusvyfmkpxvunvcxtmafvafmiuarx,vsx
.snnwvusxv.pxxbxcvafunvinf.iany.fx..q

“Esmuveappvniiycvun- movmuvusxvGnp xfvSaf ?”vsxvm.wx vm.v.nnfvm.vusx
pmeoxcvem.vmemwxq

“.uappvkcnn afgvnfvusmu?vOnyvkxuuxcv.pxxb,vWau,vmf v cnefvinf.iany.fx..
dncvmvdxevsnyc.q”

“Fn;vmf.excvtxq”

“Usxvafhyx.uveappvkxvsxp vmuvusxvumrxcf,vmf vafvusxvcnntvesxcxvusxvkn o
pax.q”

“Onyvty.uvkxvusxcx,”v.ma vTmcpnexvafvmv xia x vunfxq

“Dncvesmuvbycbn.x?”

“Unv.xxvusxventmfq”

“Dncgxuvsxc,”v.ma vUmtencusq

“Fn;vkyuvtncxvadv.sxvsm.vkxxfvmbbcxsxf x ,v.sxvtmovfxx vma vncvm raixq”

“Bn..akpo,”vmf.excx vUmtencus,vmf vusxfvmduxcvmvtntxfu’.vusnygsuvsx
infuafyx :v“.sxvtmovxrxfvfxx vunvkxvemcfx vmgmaf.uvmvkxucmompvndvusx
ucyxv.auymuanfvndvmddmac.q”

Tmcpnexvem.vnfvusxvbnafuvndv a.byuafgvusa.vatbyumuanfvndvkm vdmaus;
kyuvsxvsxp vsa.vbxmix,vdncvsxv.mevusmuvusa.va xmvmpnfxvenyp vimy.xvusx
pmeoxcvunvsm.uxfvunvusxv.ixfxvndvusxvicatxq

“Aveappvgn,”vmuvpxfgusv.ma vUmtencusq

“Mf vuxppvsxcvesxcxvAvmt,vmf vusmuv.sxvty.uvwxxbvtxvbn.ux vm.vunvsxc
esxcxmknyu.,vmf vusmuvAvsnbxvdncvdafmpv xparxcmfixqvUxppvsxcvusmuvA
usafwvndvsxcvm.vndvnp qvUxppvsxc,vusmuvusxvdyuycx,vusnygsv mcw,vtmo
ipxmcqvUxppvsxcvunvemauvdncvtxqvTovGn !vimfvonyvfnuvkcafgvsxcvkmiw
eausvony?vPxuvfn--”

“Snp !vsnp ,vtmf!”vxjipmatx vUmtencus,v“usa.vtmuuxcva.vunnvdcx.svafvusx
taf .vndvusn.xvesnv.yccnyf vsxcqvUsxovusafwvusmuvonyvmcxv xm vmf vusmu
usxv.pmoxcva.vsxcvsy.kmf qvXrxcovtnrxtxfuvndvsxc.veappvkxvemuisx qvM
ra.auvpawxvusmuvsxcxvenyp vkxvdmumpqvAveappv nvesmuvAvimf,vkyuvfnusafg
cm.sq”

“Auvcx.u.veausvusxx,vusxf,”vcx.ytx vTmcpnex,vbcx..afgvsa.vdcaxf ’.
smf ,v“onyvcxingfalxvusxv xbusvndvtovpnrxqv nvxrxcousafgvafvusovbnexc
unvbcxrxfuvmfvxrxcpm.uafgv.xbmcmuanfvkxuexxfvy.qv nvfnuvaficxm.xvto
 x.bmac,vAvbcmovonyqvAvtmovdxfixvto.xpdvdcntvusxvencp qvAvtmov.yiixx 
afv cnefafgvusxvtxtncovndvtovdcaxf .,vusxacvdmix.,vusxacvrnaix.;vAvtmo
.nv exppvusmuvsnbxva.vmvenc vndvfnvatbncu,vmf vusxvdyuycxvbycbn.xpx..
mf vxtbuo;vkyuv.uappvusxcxva.vnfxvpafwvafvpadxvusmuvty.uvfnuvkx
.xrxcx q”

“Avyf xc.umf ,”v.ma vUmtencus,vdxxpafgpo,v“esmuxrxcvimfvkxv nfxveaus
.mdxuov.smppvkxv nfxqvCa vusovtaf vndvusx.xvtncka va xm.,vncvxrxcovpafx
onyvecauxvkxvuafiuycx veausvusxtqvUsxcxva.vtyisvoxuvdncvonyvunvparx
dncqvUsxvdyuycxva.vfnuv.nv mcwvm.vonyvbaiuycxq”

Tmcpnexv.snnwvsa.vsxm veausnyuvcxbpoafgq

“Fne,”vinfuafyx vUmtencus,v“exveappv.xxvesmuvtovbycrxoncvsm.vdncvy.qvAu
eappvkxvpagsuvun- mo,vkyuvkxdncxvun-tnccnevusxcxv.smppvkxvfnuaixvgarxf
ndvtovaficxm.xvndvmbbxuauxq”

Sxvuscxevnbxfvusxvcaispovbmfxpx v nncvndvesmuvmbbxmcx vunvkxvmvtx aærmp
bncumkpxvemc cnkxqvMv.sxpdvafvau.vafuxcancv.pnepov.mfwvyf xcvbcx..ycx
ndvsa.vsmf ,vmf v a.mbbxmcx vdcntvraxev nefvmv mcwv.smduq

“Auva.vpmuxvdncvusxvtncfafgvtxmp,vkyuvgnn vta.ucx..vBaiwpxveappv.xf 
ybv.ntxusafgvdncvy.qvUsxvwxxbxcvmf vsa.veadxvparxv acxiupovkxpne,vmf 
esxfxrxcvAv.agfmpveausvusxv ytkvemauxc,vauv.nnfvca.x.veausvusxvkx.uvusx
iybknmc vmf vdacx-bpmixvmddnc q”




ESXCXvPMTXFUMUANFvBCXRMAPX q

vvvv_Exxb,vsxmrxf.,vmf vrmfa.svafunvpahya vuxmc.!_
vvvv_Dmpp,v.umc.vusmuvgnrxcfvsa.vfmuarauo,_
vvvv_Mf v.yttnfvmppvusxv.safafgvpmtb.vndvsxmrxf_
vvvv_Unvim.uvusxacvknnupx..vdacx.vunvusxvxmcusq_

vvvv--_AAvUmtkycpmafx,vr,v3q_

vvvv_Syfgvkxvusxvsxmrxf.veausvkpmiw,voaxp v movunvfagsu!_
vvvv_Intxu.,vatbncuafgvismfgxvndvuatx.vmf v.umux.,_
vvvv_Kcmf a.svonycvico.umpvucx..x.vafvusxv.wo,_
vvvv_Mf veausvusxtv.inycgxvusxvkm ,vcxrnpuafgv.umc.q_

vvvv--_Dac.uvBmcuvSxfcovRA,va,v1q_


EsxfvGorx.,vusxvinf.umkpx,v.pyfwvmemovdcntvusxvbncuainvndvusxvEaf tapp
Umrxcf,vesxcxvsxvsm vkxxfvxjsmy.uafgvsa.vbmuaxfixvnfvbcnucmiux vemuis,
sa.vdmixvem.vusxvintbn.auxvbaiuycxvndvmppvusxvsnbxpx..vecxuisx.vesnt
sxvsm vmccx.ux v ycafgvsa.vpnfgvuxctvndvnddaixqvSxvsm vemaux vdnc
Umkkmc ,vmf --sxvsm v.xxfvsatqvAuvem.vxra xfuvusmuvfnv xtmf vybnfvusx
pmuuxcvinyp vkxvcx.bnf x vunqvEsmuvem.vsxvunv n?vUnvkxveausnyuvusx
emccmfuvtxmfuvusxvpn..vndvsa.vnddaixvmf vbxcsmb.vsxmrovdafxvncv.xrxcx
byfa.stxfuqvAuvtagsuvkxvusmuvusxvinfuxfu.vndvUmkkmc ’.vbniwxu.vsm vkxxf
cxtnrx vkxdncxvusxvkn ovem.vumwxfvdcntvusxvumrxcf;vkyuvusa.vem.vfnu
pawxpoqvXrxcovnfxvdxmcx vinfumganf;vmf vusxv xm ,vdcntvbpmgyx,vexcxvfnu
y.ymppov a.uyckx vtncxvusmfvem.vfxix..mcovunvtnrxvusxtvunvusxv xmus
imcuqvMvcmovndvsnbxv.imuuxcx v.ntxvndvusxvgpnntvnfvsa.vinyfuxfmfix,vmf 
usxvkcxmwafgvpagsuvndvusxvtncfafgvcxrxmpx vauqvSxv xuxctafx vunvdnppne
usxvimcu,vesaisvem.vmpcxm ovbm..afgv nefvusxvNp vZxecoqvSxv.umcux 
ybnfvusa.v.byc,vmf vmuvusxvincfxcvndvusxvBnypucovnrxcunnwvusxvimcu,
esais,vuycfafgvex.u,vxfuxcx vIsxmb.a xqvGorx.vwxbuvmuvmv a.umfixvnd
usacuovdxxuvdcntvusxvnkzxiuvusmuvsxvdnppnex ,vxausxcvunvmrna vcma.afg
.y.baianf.vndvxrapvnfvusxvbmcuvndvusxvparafgvniiybmfu.vndvusxvimcu,vnc
unvmrna vipn.xvbcnjatauovunvusxvraiuat.vndvusxvbpmgyxq

Usxvtncfafgvpagsuvem.vfnev.ucnfgvxfnygsvdncvGorx.vunv.xxvusmuvusxvimcu
em.vnfpovsmpdvdyppvndvkn ax.qvSa.vmbbcxsxf.anf,vusmuvdcxhyxfuvsmpu.
enyp vxf.yxvkxdncxvusxovcxmisx vusxvbnuuxc.’vdaxp ,v.nnfvbcnrx vunvkx
afvbmcuvexppvdnyf x qvUsxvdac.uvnfxvniiyccx vfxmcvusxvtnyusvndvmv.a x
.ucxxuvncvpmfxqvGpnntovpnnwafgvkyap afg.v.unn vmuvusxvincfxc.,vmf 
ipn.xvkxsaf vxmis,vdmiafgvnfvusxvpmfx,vexcxvcne.vndv.tmpp,vta.xcmkpx
inuumgx.qv x.bauxvusxvnc afmfixvbcnsakauafgvusxvkyap afgvndvsny.x.vnd
dcmapvmf vbxca.smkpxvtmuxcamp,vusx.xv.ucyiuycx.vsm vkxxfvcma.x veaus
dcnfu.vndvenn vmf vcnnd.vndvcxx .qvUsxovexcxvmppvndvnfxv.uncovmf vmcn.x
dcntvusxvx gxvndvusxvty  ovempw--pnevempp.vndvybcagsuvbpmfw.,vkcnwxf
kovfmccneveaf ne.vmf v.bmix.vkxuexxfv nncbn.u.qvUsxvcxx .vndvusxvcnnd.
fxrxcvdpnyca.sx vafvmvpnimpauovtncxv.yaumkpxvdncvusxacvcmfwvgcneus
usmfvusxvpmfxvkxpneqvAuvem.v xxbveausvty vmf vemuxcqvPagsu.v.snfxvdcnt
.ntxvndvusxveaf ne.,vkyuv.nvdmafupovusmuvusxv.uappv yppvgpattxcvndvusx
tncfafgv.xxtx vunvtniwvusxvbnrxcuovndvusxacvcmo.qvNfv.xrxcmpvndvusx
 nnc.vcx vicn..x.vexcxvbcafux ,vmf vuenvemuistxfvexcxvbmiafgvunvmf 
dcnvkxdncxvusxt,vunv.xxvusmuvusx.xvtmcwx v nnc.vexcxvwxbuvipn.x vxjixbu
dncvusxvbycbn.xvndvbm..afgvnyuvusxvincb.xvndvmfvaftmuxq

.nyf .vndvpmtxfumuanfvimtxvdcntvusxvpmfxqvUsx.xvexcxv.ntxesmuv.tnusxcx 
kovusxvusafvempp.vesaisvnfpovm  x vunvusxacvtnycfdypfx..qvUsxvimcu
uycfx vafunvusxvpmfx,vmf vGorx.vsxmc vnfxvndvusxvemuistxfv.mo:

“Mpemo.vpmuxqvUxfvtafyux.vtncxvmf’vau’ppvkxv.yfvyb,vmf vexvenyp f’u
 mcxvunvbm..vmfnusxcvincb.xvunvusxvimcuqvEsov nf’uvonyv.umcuvxmcpaxc?”

“Mpemo.vgcnepafg,”vcxuycfx vusxv carxcqv“Snevtmfovmcxvsxcx?”

“.aj,”vmf.excx vusxvemuistmfq

“Au’.vgcneafgvenc.xq”

“Ox.;vnfpovuenvox.uxc movtncfafgq”

“Esaisv exppafg.vusa.vuatx?”vm.wx vusxv.xinf vtmfvnfvusxvimcu,vesnvem.
wfnefvm.vmvkycaxcq

“Usxcx,vusxcxvmf vusxcx,”v.ma vusxvemuistmf,vbnafuafgveausvusxvsxm vnd
sa.vsmpkxc q

“Esmu!vmgmaf?”vxjipmatx vusxv carxc,vpnnwafgvmuvusxvsnrxpvfxmcx.uvmu
smf q

“Usxvpm.uvndvusxvdmtapo,”vm  x vusxvemuistmfq

“Tmfvncventmf?”

“Fxausxc;vmvuxf-oxmc-np vgacpq”

“ ax vmpnfx?”

“Ox.qvMvdcaxf vimtxvxmcpovafvusxvfagsuvunv.xxvsxc,vkyuvusxvpme,vony
wfne,vmppne.vfnvnfxvunvgnvafunvmf vusxfvintxvnyuvndvmfvafdxiux vsny.x,
xjixbuvonyvkycaxc.q”

“Mf vusa.vdcaxf v.ma vsxvenyp vemfuvunvintxvnyuq”

“Ndvinyc.xq”

“.nvsxvexfuvmemo?”

“.sxv a ;vauvem.vmventmfq”

“Usxf,vusxvicoafgv nf’uvintxvdcntvusmuvsny.xq”

“Fn,vdcntvnrxcvusxcxqvUsxovcma.x vusxveaf nevmfvsnycvmgn,vmf vmvtmf
.ma ,v‘Tov.nfvzy.uv ax vmf vtoveadxva.vfnevumwxfv.aiwvafvusxv.mtxvemoq’
Sxvemfux vunvintxvnyuvdncvtx aiafx,vkyuvAvinyp f’uvpxuvsatqvOnyvimf
sxmcvsatq”

“Ex’ppvsmrxvucnykpxveausvsat,vpawxpoq”

“Ox.qvSxvtmovemfuvunvgnvunvusxvisycis-omc q”

Zy.uvusxfvusxveaf nevem.vcma.x vmf vusxvesauxvdmixvndvmvtmfvbxxcx vnyu
nrxcvusxv.appqvXrxfvusxvsmc xfx vkycaxc.vdxpuv.aiwvmuvsxmcu,vm.vusxo
imygsuvusxvucxtkpafgvunfxvndvsa.vrnaixvmf vsxmc vsa.venc .qvSxv.ma :

“.nvonyvsmrxvintxvdncvusxt?”

“Usxfvusxcx’.v.xrxfvaf.uxm vndv.aj,”vesa.bxcx vusxvemuistmf;v“dncvA
nfpovinyfux vnfvnfxvsxcxq”

“Mf vxrxcousafgva.vgnfxvdcntvtx,”vinfuafyx vusxvtmfvmuvusxveaf neq

“Exvimf’uv.movfnusafgvisxxcdyp,”v.ma vusxvemuistmf,vafvpnevrnaix,
unvusxvuenvtxfvfxmcvsat,v“.nvau’.vkx.uvunvwxxbvhyaxu,vxjixbuvesxf
fxix..mcoqvGnvafvusxcxvdac.u,”vsxvm  x ,vbnafuafgvunvusxvsny.xvesxcxaf
pmovusxv xm vgacpq

Esapxvusxvuenvkycaxc.vexfuvafvmf vexcxvimccoafgvnyuvusxvkn o,vusx
emuistmfv.ma vunvusxvtmfvmuvusxveaf ne:v“A.vonycv nncvpniwx ?”

“Usxo’cxvmppv xm ,”vsxvmf.excx ,v“usxcx’.vfnvfxx vintafgvafqvOnyvimf’u
sxpbvusxtvmfo,vmf vau’.vkxuuxcvusxovcxtmafvsxcxvusmfvkxvuscnefvafun
usmuvkpmiwvbauqvA’rxv.xxfvauqvAvexfuvnyuvusxvfagsuvZnsfvMf cxe.v ax q
Usxovuscxevsatvafvfmwx ,vmf vmuvpxm.uvmvsyf cx vnusxc.vexcxvafvusxv.mtx
gcxmuvsnpxqvAuva.f’uvisca.uamf-pawxq”

“Intx,vnbxfvusxv nnc,”v.ma vusxvemuistmfq

“Fn,”vcxuycfx vusxvtmfqv“Usxo’cxvtov xm q”

“Sx’.vicmlo,”vesa.bxcx vusxvemuistmfq

“Mf vexvsmrxvfnvuatxvunv.bmcx,”v.yggx.ux vusxv carxcq

“Mf vony’ppvsmrxvmvpnm veausvusxvdnycvnrxcvafvusmuvsny.x,”v.ma vusx
emuistmfq

“Un-tnccnevex’ppvintxvdncvusmuvbmpxvdmix,vunn,”vcxtmcwx vusxvkycaxc;
mf vusxfvusxovbcnixx x veausvusxacvum.wvmuvusxvnusxcvsny.xq

Gorx.vfxcrny.povusnygsuvndvsa.vnefvdmtapovm.vsxvemuisx vusxvbcnixx afg.
afvusxvpmfxqvUsxovparx vafvfnvkxuuxcvhymcuxc.,vmf vmpusnygsvusxvbpmgyx
sm vfnuvoxuvra.aux vsa.vfxagskncsnn ,vsxvinyp vdaf vpauupxvunvisxxcvsat
afvusmuvdmiuq

UsxvimcuvfnevkxgmfvcnppafgvuscnygsvIsxmb.a xqvUsxv.yf,vexppvipxmcx 
dcntvusxvipny .vmpnfgvusxvsncalnf,vem.vcmba pov cafwafgvybvusxv mtbfx..
ndv.ucxxu.vmf vcnnd-unb.qvGorx.vem.vcxrxcxfuvxfnygsvunvknevsa.vsxm ,
m.,vgpxmtafgvkxdncxvsa.vxox.,vsxv.mevusxvgapuvicn..vafvIsxmbqvAuvem.
mfvatbn.afgvnkzxiuvdncvusxvixfuxcvndvusxvusncnygsdmcx,vkyuvusxvdmiu
ndvauvkxafgvmfvnk.ucyiuanfvunvusxviyccxfuvndvta  movucm xvem.vfnu
mbbmcxfuvmuvusa.vxmcpovsnyc,vesxfvnfpovnfxvrxsaipxvem.vesxxpafgvyf xc
nfxvndvau.vxjuxf x vmct.qvUsa.vrxsaipxv.unbbx vdncvau.vparafgvpnm vun
cxdcx.svau.xpdvmuvusxv.ucxmtvndvemuxcvbnycafgvdcntvusxvkcxm.uvndvusx
mpmkm.uxcvatmgxvndv amfmvusmuv.unn vnyuvdcntvusxvumkxcfmipxvyf xcvusx
icn..qv ycafgvusxvafuxcrmpvGorx.’vxox.vcmfgx vdcntvusxvty  ovmf vkcnwxf
bmrxtxfuvunvusxv mfgpafgv.agf.vndvxrxcovinfixarmkpxvucm x,vunvusx
bcnzxiuafgvgmppxcax.vndvusxvybbxcv.uncax.vndvgcxmuvkyap afg.,vunvusx
dcnfu.vndvatbn.afgvisycisx.,vmf vusxfvunvusxvnbxfvmf vinfuafyafgv.bmix
msxm vafunvesaisvIsxmb.a xvxfuxcx vmf vcmfvnfvm.vFxegmuxv.ucxxuqvAuvem.
afunvFxegmuxv.ucxxuvusmuvusxvimcuvem.vfnev carxfqvNfvauvexfuvafvsm.ux,
dncvnusxcvucmrxpxc.vexcxvkxgaffafgvunvuscxm vusxvusncnygsdmcx.,vmf vusx
IsmcuxcvSny.xvkycoafgvgcnyf vem.v.uappvmuv.ntxv a.umfix,vnyu.a xvusx
iauovemppqvFnvipn.x vgmux.vinfdcnfux vusxtvxausxcvmuvusxviauovemppvnc
muvusxvixtxuxco,vuscnygsvesn.xvnbxfvemo.vusxovbm..x q

Gorx.vem.vmuvpxfgusvmta vusxvuntk.vmf vusxviobcx..x.vndvusxvfnevpnfg
.afixvmkmf nfx vfxicnbnpa.,vmf vem.vipn.xvxfnygsvunvusxvimcuvunvsxmc
usxvicyfisafgvndvau.vesxxp.vnfvusxvdcx.spovgcmrxpx vcnm ,vmf vdncvusx
 carxcvunvfnuaixvsatqvSxvem.vumwxfvdncvmvtnycfxc,vmf vxrxfvusxvgcydd
.xjunfvesnvpnnwx vdcntvsa.veaf nevafvusxvpauupxvsny.xvzy.uveausafvusx
empp,vdmapx vunvintxvdncusvmf vemcfvsatvunvwxxbvnyu.a xvusxvgmuxq

Sxva povemuisx vusxvyfpnm afgvndvusxvrxsaipx;vmf veausvusmuvum.w
intbpxux ,vusxvtxf,vm.vusnygsvxjsmy.ux veausvusxvfagsu’.vyfbpxm.mfu
encw,vattx amuxpov cnrxvmemoveausnyuvgpmfiafgvmuvusxv.npaumcovdagycx
fxmcvusxvbapxvndvincb.x.qvUsxvkyc xfvndvusxvimcuv.snyp vsmrxvkxxf
im.uvattx amuxpovafunvmvinttnfvgcmrx,vkyuvnfxvsm vzy.uvkxxfvxfuacxpo
dappx vmf vmvfxevnfxvem.vfnuvhyauxvcxm oqvUsa.vinf auanfvndvusafg.vem.
tn.uvnbbncuyfxvdncvGorx.qvSxv a vfnuv xpmo;vkyu,vumwafgvsnp vndvusx
.snyp xc.vndvnfxvkn ovecmbbx vafvmv.sxxu,vsxvem.vmknyuvunv.snrxvauvndd
usxvbapx,vesxfvsxvsxmc v.ntxvnfxv.movafvmvunfxvndvcxtnf.ucmfix:

“Esmuvmcxvonyv nafgvusxcx?”

Usxvrnaixvimtxvdcntvmvgcmrx- aggxc,vesn,vsmrafgvcma.x vsat.xpdvdcntvm
 xxbvucxfisvfxmcvmuvsmf ,vfnev.unn vfxmcvusxvbapxvndvincb.x.qvSxvsm 
kxxfv aggafgvafvusxvcmafvmf vusxvty vmppvfagsu,vmf vusxvtncfafgvpagsu
mf vusxvemctusvndvsa.vnefvcx.bacafgvkn ovecmbbx vsatvafvmv.uxmtqvAu
mcn.x,vm.vusnygsvdcntvmv yfg-sapp,vdncvsxvem.vbpm.uxcx veausvkpmiwvty 
dcntvsxm vunvdnnuqvGorx.vcma.x vsa.vsxm vmf v.umcx vmuvsatqvUsxcxvem.
fnusafgvunv cxm vkyuvusxv.snrxp,v.n,vbyppafgvuenvkn ax.vmbmcu,vmf 
cnppafgvnfxvnrxcvusxvcx.u,vsxv.ma :

“Pnnwafgvdncvmvkcnusxcq”

“Gnuvmvbxctau?”

“Fn,”vgcyddpovmf.excx vGorx.q

“Esmuv nvonyvemfuvndvsat?vSx’.,v xm ,vmaf’uvsx?”

“Avemfuvunva xfuadovsatq”

“Ony’cxvumwafgvmvca.w,”vinfuafyx vusxvgcmrxv aggxcq

“Snev.n?”

“Usxvbpmgyxq”

“Kms!”vxjipmatx vGorx.q

“Mf ,vdycusxctncx,vau’.vmvicatxq”

“Gnvkmiwvunvonycvsnpx,”vgcnepx vGorx.q

“Dncvonyvmcxvcadpafgvusxvkn ovndvusxv xm ,”vinfuafyx vusxvtmf,vcma.afg
sa.vrnaixq

Gorx.vsm vdnyf vusxvincb.xvndvUmkkmc ;vmf ,vmuvusxvpm.uvpny venc .,vsx
em.vuscy.uafgvsa.vsmf .vafunvusxvbniwxu.vndvusxv xm vtmfq

“Wxxbvonycvipmbbxcv.uapp,”v.fxxcx vGorx.,vinfuxtbuyny.poq

Usxvtmfvuycfx vmf vcmfvunemc vusxvsny.xvfxmcvusxvnbxfvgmuxvndvusx
ixtxuxco,voxppafgvdncvsxpbvm.vsxv a v.nqvGorx.vsm vmpcxm ovintbpxux 
sa.v.xmcis;vusxcxvem.vfnusafgvafvusxvbniwxu.qvM.vsxvipmtkxcx vndd
usxvbapx,vsxv.mevmvtmfvdcntvusxvsny.xvtxxuvusxvgcmrx- aggxcqvUsxo
imtxvunemc vsatqvUsxacvpnnw.vexcxvtxfmiafgvmf vusxvfxeintxcvsxp vm
kpyf xcky..vafvsa.vsmf .qvGorx.vinyp vfnuvcxucxmu,v.nvsxvinfdcnfux 
usxtq

“Garxvonyc.xpdvyb,”v.ma vusxvtmfveausvusxvkpyf xcky..qvSxvem.vusx
.xjunfvmf v.bnwxvmyusncaumuarxpo;vmf vusxvtmfveausvusxv.snrxpv.ybbncux 
usxvnc xcveausvusxvenc .:v“Auvfxrxcvta..x.vdacxq”

“Esmuv.snyp vAvgarxvto.xpdvybvdnc?”vm.wx vGorx.q

“Ucx.bm..afgq”

“Mf vcnkkafgvusxv xm ,”vm  x vusxvgcmrxv aggxcq

“ cnbvonycvgyf,”vinttmf x vGorx.,v“A’tvmfvnddaixcq”

Sxvbyppx vnbxfvsa.v nykpxuvxjbn.afgvsa.vkm gxvndvmyusncauoq

“Mf ,vtncxnrxc,”vsxvinfuafyx ,v“Avsmrxvumwxfvfnusafgq”

Usxv.xjunfvpnnwx vafhyacafgpovmuvsa.vintbmfanfq

“Av.mevsatv.xmcisvusxvbniwxu.vndvnfxvndvusn.xvincb.x.q”

“Dncvtovbmbxc.vmf vunva xfuadovsat,”vcx.bnf x vGorx.,v“mf vdnyf 
fnusafgqvUsxvbmbxcvAvemfux vem.vfnuvusxcxq”

Usxvgymc amfvndvusxvbpmixvmbbxmcx v.mua.dax qvSxvpnexcx vusxvtyllpx
ndvsa.vkpyf xcky..,vmf vusxvuscxxvempwx vunemc vusxvxfucmfixqvGorx.
sm vkxxfvgcneafgvbmpxcveausvxrxcov.uxbvumwxfvkovsatqvUsxvcx.ypuvndvsa.
.xmcisvdncvusxvemccmfuvsm v.umggxcx vsatvtyisvtncxvusmfvsm vusxvpxrxpx 
.snugyfqvSxvdxmcx vusmuvKmtxvsm vauqvSxvsm vfnva xmvndvesmuvbcn.xiyuanf
tagsuvkxvaf.uauyux vmgmaf.uvsat,vncvesmuvbyfa.stxfuvtagsuvkxvafdpaiux ;
kyu,vwfneafgvusmuvusaxrx.,vdnyf vgyapuovndv.uxmpafgvmknrxvuexprxvbxfix,
excxvsyfg,vsxvsm vcxm.nfvunvdxmcvmv.atapmcvdmuxvdncvsa.vtncxvgcaxrny.
nddxf.xqvKovusxvuatxvsxvcxmisx vusxv.xjunf’.vsny.xvsxvem.vndvusxvinpnc
ndvismpwvmf vsa.vwfxx.vgmrxvemoqvUsxvuenvtxfvm..a.ux vsatvunvusxv.uxb.
kxdncxvusxvsny.xq

“Auva.vm.vAvxjbxiux ,”vtyctycx vusxvgcmrx- aggxcq

“Usxvbpmgyx?”vhyxcax vusxv.xjunf,vdajafgvsa.vea xvnbxfvxox.vybnfvGorx.’
dmixq

“Eso,vox.,”vmf.excx vusxvgcmrx- aggxcq

“Fn,”vbmfux vGorx.vafvmvpnevrnaix,v“A’ppvkxvkxuuxcvafvmvdxevtafyux.q”

Knusvtxfv cxevkmiwvmf v.snnwvusxacvsxm .qvUsxovemaux ,vdxmcdypvnd
.xxafgvsatvpn.xvinf.iany.fx..,vcmrxvmf v ax;vkyuvtyisvunvusxacv.ycbca.x
sa.vinpncvimtxvkmiw;vsxv.umggxcx vunvsa.vdxxu;vsxvm.wx vdncvemuxc,
esaisvsxvcxixarx vmf v cmfw;vsxvyuuxcx vsa.vusmfw.,v.ucn xv nefvusx
cnm ,vmf vbm..x vuscnygsvusxvnbxfvgmuxq

EsxfvGorx.vm..xcux vsa.vbn.auanfvm.vmfvnddaixcvunvusxvuenvtxfvafvusx
ixtxuxco,vsxvsm vdxpuvusmuvauvem.vmknyuvusxvpm.uvuatxvsxvinyp vumwx
.yisvmv.umf qvPmuxc,vybnfvusmuv mo,vsxvem.vcxtnrx vdcntvnddaixvmuvusx
af.umfixvndvKmtx,vusxvismcgxvkxafgvusmuvsxvsm vbmcux veausvnddaiamp
bmbxc.;vfxgpxiux vsa.v yuax.,vmf vbcnrx vsat.xpdvafintbxuxfuvunvbxcdnct
usxtqvSxvinyp vfnuvbcn yixvusxvemccmfuqvKmtxvbcn yix vusxvdcmgtxfu
ndvusxv.xmpvmf vbncuanf.vndvusxvimbuanfvmf vusxvkn ovndvusxvecauqvAu
ipn.x vGorx.’vbykpaivimcxxcqvSxvem.vbpyfgx vafunvmkzxiuvbnrxcuo;vafvusx
emwxvndvdmtafxvimtxvusxvkpmiwv x.ucnoxc,vmf vsa.vxfuacxvdmtapovem.vuncf
dcntvsatvafvmvdxevsnyc.q

Auvem.vfnuv.ucmfgxvusmuvsxvmuucakyux vmppvsa.vta.dncuyfxvunvKmtxqvAd
muvxrxcoviyc.xvsxvtyuuxcx vmgmaf.uvsa.vmiiy.xc,vsxvsm v cmefvmvbnfamc 
micn..vmvesxu.unfx,vusxvkpm xvenyp vsmrxvkxxfvm.vfmccnevm.vmvpmfixuqvSx
 nggx vKmtx’.v.uxb.;vsxvemaux vdncvsatvmpemo.veausv mcwvafuxfuanf.;vkyu
pawxvSmtpxu,vsxv xdxccx vmiuanfq




NRXCvUSXvKN OvNDvUSXv XM q

vvvv_Esmuv.agsuva.vusa.,vtovPn nrainv.pmaf!_
vvvv_Usx.xvmct.vndvtafxv.smppvkxvusov.xbypiscxq_

vvvv--_ZxevndvTmpum,vaaa,v2q_

vvvv_Usx.xvmct.vndvtafxv.smppvkxvusoveaf afgv.sxxu;_
vvvv_Tovsxmcu,v.exxuvkno,v.smppvkxvusov.xbypiscxq_

vvvv--_Usac vBmcuvWafgvSxfcovRA,vaa,v5q_


Usxvtncfafgvem.vdmcvm rmfix vesxfvUmtencusvcxmisx vusxvknuuntvndvusx
.uxb.vndvusxvNp v.emfqvUsxcx,vesxcxvusxvxkkvmf vdpnevndvusxvUsmtx.vsm 
bpmix vau.vtmcwvybnfvusxvtm.nfco,vsxvxtkmcwx vafvmvesxccovmf vem.v.nnf
bm..afgvyf xcvPnf nfvKca gxqvUsxvsnuvcmo.vndvusxvZyfxv.yfvexcxvdncvm
dxevtntxfu.vafuxcixbux qvUsxv.eaduviyccxfuvkncxvusxtveausvusxvrxpniauo
ndvmvtapp-cmixvyf xcvusxvmcisvkxfxmusvesaisvusxvcnexcvsm v acxiux vusx
esxcco’.vbcneqvUsxv.unfx-encwvmf vusxvusaiwvcnm -kx vndvusxvkca gx
bcxrxfux vsatvdcntvsxmcafgvusxvcmuupxvndvimcu.vmf vusxvtnrxtxfuvndvusx
uytypuyny.v.ucxmtvndvdnnuvbm..xc.vnrxcsxm ;vkyu,vm.vusxvknmuva..yx 
afunvusxv.yf.safx,vsxvinyp v.xxvusxvicne .vmbbcnmisafgvmf vbnycafgvnyu
ndvusxvfncusvxf qvSagsvnrxcsxm vcn.xvusxvipn.xvcnevndvkyap afg.vesais
cmfvmpnfgvusxvx gxvndvusxvkca gx,vpawxvmvpafxvndvdncuadaimuanf.qvUsxcx
excxvkyuvuscxxvkcxmw.vafvusa.vpafxvdcntvusxvPnf nfvunvusxv.nyusemcw
.a xqvUsxvgcxmuv afgovkyap afg.vndvdnyc,vdarxvmf v.ajv.uncax.vmbbxmcx 
m.vusnygsvsmfgafgvucxtypny.povnfvusxvrxcgxvndvmvbcxiabaixqvUsxv.smcb
.uxxbpxvndvusxvismbxpvndv.uqvUsntm.,vmca.afgvmknrxvusxvuxfusvncvixfucmp
baxc,vungxusxcveausvusxvunexc.vndvmvgcxmuv.ucyiuycxvkx.a xvau,vm  x vun
usxvexac fx..vndvusxvta -macviauo,vtnuanfpx..vmknrxvcx.upx..vemuxc.q

Fnevtnrafgvafunvta v.ucxmt,vmuvusxvycgafgvndvsa.vbm..xfgxc,vusx
esxccotmfvbpax vsa.vnmc.veausv.yisvragncvusmuvusxvempp.vndvusxvUnexc
.nnfvcn.xvdmcvafvusxvkmiwgcnyf vmf vusxv.smcbvkxf vndvusxvcarxcvmu
usxvpnexcvbnnpvsa vusxviauovau.xpdvdcntvraxeqvUsxvbxmixvndvea xvmf 
yfkcnwxfvemuxc.vbxcrm x vsxcx,vdncvfnvrx..xp.vexcxvtnrafgvmgmaf.uvusx
iyccxfu,vmf vusxvpnevsapp.vdcnfuafgvxausxcvkmfwvexcxv.uappvicnefx 
eausvracgafvdncx.u.qvMuvusxv xbudnc vesmcd,vUmtencusvpxduvusxvknmuvmf 
syccax povempwx vuscnygsvusxvunef;vkovusxvGpnkx,vkovusxvbmca.svisycis
ndv.uqvFaisnpm.,veausafvesn.xvisycisomc vem.v.nnfvunvkxvpma vusxvkn o
ndvDcmfia.vDcmlxc,vmf vnfemc vunvusxvemo.a xvumrxcfvndvusxvGnp xfvSaf q

EsxfvUmtencusvcxmisx vusxvbpmixvpm.uvtxfuanfx ,vauvem.vsagsvfnnfqvUsxcx
excxvxfnygsvsnc.x.vkxdncxvusxvumrxcfvdcnfuvunvgarxvsatvusxva xmvndvm
icne x vumb-cnntveausaf;vkyuvesxfvsxvxfuxcx vusxvpmuuxcvbpmixvsxvdnyf 
auv x.xcux ,vxjixbuvdncvusxveadxvndvusxvpmf pnc ,vesn,veausvmfousafg
kyuvmvbpxm.mfuvinyfuxfmfix,vempwx vkmiwvmf vdncusvkxdncxvusxvkmcq

“Gnn v mo,vTa.ucx..v n .tmf,”v.ma vUmtencus,vmf vusxfveausvusx
afuxfuanfvndvinfrxoafgvusxva xmvusmuvsxvwfxevfnusafgvndvusxvtyc xc,vnc
usxvafhyx.u,vsxvinfuafyx :v“Mvhyaxuvsny.xvdncvusa.vsnycqvEsxcxvmcxvusx
ca xc.vndvusxvsnc.x.vusmuvicne vusa.vdcnfu?”

“Usxvincnfxc’.vafhyx.uva.vkxafgvsxp ,”v.sxvmf.excx ,vmf v.smwafgvsxc
sxm vxjiaux po,vcx.ytx :v“ n .tmfvty.uvfxx .vkxvusxcx,vUygvmf vusx
.xcrafgvtmf,vmf v.nvAvmtvpxduvunvsnp vmf vxfuxcumafvusxvbykpaiq”

“Esmuvafhyx.u?”vafhyacx vUmtencusq

“Nrxcvmvtyc xcx vtmfq”

“Esn?”

“Avimffnuv.exmcvesnvauva.,vdncvusxcxva.vmvhyx.uanfvafvtovtaf q”

“Snev.n?”

“Usxvtyc xcx vtmfvmf vusxvtyc xcxcvexcxvmpawxvm.vuenvbxm.,vmf vA
enyp f’uv.movesxusxcvusxvInyfuvpax.vybvusxcxvncvusxvmiunc,vyfuapvusx
Inyfu’.veadxv.bxmw.q”

“Mf vesmuvusafwvnusxc.vmknyuvusa.?”

“Expp,vusxvmiuncvesnvxfinyfuxcx vusxvInyfux..,v.mo.vusxv xm vtmfva.
Tmcpnex,vmf vsxvnygsuvunvwfnev.ntxusafgvmknyuvau;vkyuvUygv.mo.vau
a.vusxvInyfu,vmf vm.vsxvsm.vmvwxxfvxoxvdncvgyx.u.vesxfvparafg,v.ntx
cx.bxiuva.v yxvsa.vnbafanfvnfvmv xm vnfxq”

“Mf vesmuv.mo.vusxvincnfxc?”

“Expp,vA’rxvsxmc vsatv.movfnusafg,vkyuvsxvumpwx vdac.uveausvusxvmiunc,
mf vsmrafgvgnuvusxvatbcx..anfvdcntvsatvusmuvauvem.vTmcpnexvesnvem.
wappx ,vAvsxmc vusmuvsxvatbmfxpx vsa.vzycovunvsnp vmfvafhyx.uvnrxc
Tmcpnexq”

“Ms,”v.ma vUmtencus,veausvmv.agsvndvcxpaxd,vusafwafgvusmuvusxv.isxtx
sm vfnuvesnppovta.imccax q

“Ox.,”v.ma vusxventmf,v“mf veausvmppvtovafuxcx.uvafvusxvbnncvpm o,
esnvty.uvdmixvusxvincnfxcvmf vuxppvesmuv.sxvwfne.vndvusxvtyc xc,vAvmt
intbxppx vunvcxtmafvsxcxq”

“A.v.sxvsxcx?”vimptpovm.wx vusxvpmeoxcq

“Avusafwvusmuv.sxva.vafvusxvcnntvesxcxvusxvafhyx.uva.vkxafgvsxp ,vncvad
fnu,v.sxv.nnfveappvkxq”

“M.vmveaufx..?”

“Ox.,v.nvAv.ybbn.xqvBnncvusafg,vesxfvAvpxduvsxcvmfvsnycvmgn,vpniwx vaf
usxvcnntvesxcxvusxovsm vimccax vsxcvpm.uvfagsuvafvmv xm v.ennf,v.sxvem.
.nvtyisv a.uyckx vkovtovcxdy.mpvunv.movnfxvenc vmknyuvesnvsm vkcnygsu
sxcvusxcx,vmknyuvusxvtyc xc,vncvesmuvem.vunvumwxvbpmixvun- mo,vusmuvA
bauax vsxcvdcntvusxvknuuntvndvtovsxmcuq”

“ a v.sxvwfnevTmcpnexvem.vwappx ?”vm.wx vUmtencusq

“Sa.vfmtxvem.vfnuvtxfuanfx q”

“ a v.sxv.movfnusafgvmknyuvsxcvsy.kmf ?”

“Fn;v.sxv.mevusmuvAvenyp v.movfnusafg;vmf vmduxcvmvesova.vusa.,vmf vm
esova.vusmu,vmf vmv.smwxvndvtovsxm ,v.sxv.unbbx vm.wafgq”

“Esaisva.vusxvcnntvndvusxvafhyx.u?”

“Muvusxvsxm vndvusxv.umac.q”

Umtencusvemaux vdncvfnvdycusxcvenc .qvUsxv nncvafunvusxvsmppvem.vnbxf,
mf vmvtntxfuvmduxcvsxvsm vxfuxcx vusxvcnntvunvesaisvsxvsm vkxxf
 acxiux qvMv.ixfxvndvbxiypamcvafuxcx.uvem.vkxdncxvsatqvUsxvcnntvem.vusx
nfxvndvusxvucmgx ovndvusxvbcxrany.vfagsuqvAu.vtn.uvinf.baiyny.vnkzxiu
em.vmfvmfuahyxvkx .uxm veausvsagsvnmwvsxm -knmc qvAuvsm vkxxfvcxtnrx 
dcntvusxvmpinrx,vmf vfneveausvau.vdnnuvxjuxf x vunemc vusxvixfuxcvnd
usxvcnnt,vauv.unn vkxdncxvusxvcx vmccm.qvNfvauvem.v.ucxuisx vusxvkn o
ndvusxv xm vtmfqvAuvem.v.uappvmuuacx vm.vTmcpnexvsm vpxduvau,vmf vaf
mppvau.vgsm.upovbmppnc,vmf vyfem.sx vndvusxvkpnn vesaisvdnppnex vusx
daxcixvuscy.uvndvusxvcmbaxc,vauvpmovxjbn.x vunvusxvtncka vraxevndvusx
rypgmcqvDcntvesxcxvsxv.unn vUmtencusvinyp vfnuv.xxvusxvdmixvndvusx
incb.x,vkyuvauvem.veausvmv.tapxvusmuvsxvcxingfalx vusxv.imcpxuv nykpxu
mf vbycbpxvpnexcvgmctxfu.vndvsa.vdcaxf q

Usxv.yfpagsuvintafgvdcntvusxv acxiuanfvndvusxvUsmtx.,v.ucxmtx vuscnygs
usxvuenveaf ne.qvAuvdxppvybnfvusxvtnupxovicne vndvrappmgxc.vbmiwx 
ipn.xvmgmaf.uvusxtqvUsxvnusxcvbncuanfvndvusxvafuxfuvmy axfixvsxp vusx
.bmixvmknyuvusxvnyuxcv nncqvMicn..vusxvixfuxcvndvusxvcnntvdcntvusx
kx ’.vdnnuvem.vmvumkpx,vmpnfgvusxvdycusxcvx gxvndvesais,veausvsa.vkmiw
mgmaf.uvusxvempp,vem.vnfxvesntvauvcxhyacx vfnvmiyuxfx..vunv.afgpxvnyu
m.vusxvincnfxcqvSxvem.vmv.npxtfvpnnwafgvtmfvafvmvta.dauuafgvbne xcx 
bxcaeagvmf v mtm.wvim..niwvx gx veausvdnj-dycqvUsxvmacvndvbntbn.auo
esaisvsxvsm vm..ytx vem.vmbbmcxfuvunvusxvicauaimpvxoxvndvUmtencusqvUsx
pmuuxcv.tapx ,vm.vsxvfnuaix vmfvnbxfvknnwvafvpmevDcxfis,vpoafgvnfvusx
umkpxvmf vcxingfalx vusxvuxjuvndvBpne xfqvAuvem.vxra xfuvunvsatvusmu
usa.vknnw,vpawxvusxvgcxmuvbxcaeagvmf vusxvcaisvim..niw,vem.vy.x veaus
usxva xmvndvdappafgvusxvm..xtkpmgxveausvmex;vmf vUmtencusvemgxcx vm
syf cx vbnyf .veausvsat.xpdvusmuvusxvtmf,vesnvpnnwx vniim.anfmppovmu
usxvpafx.,vinyp vfnvtncxvafuxcbcxuvusxacvtxmfafgvusmfvusxvpmf pnc 
inyp vesnv.muvipn.xvkx.a xvsatqvUsxvcx visxxw.vndvusxvpmf pnc vexcxvm
ucadpxvbmpxcvusmfvy.ymp,vmf vusxv.xcany.vxjbcx..anfvnfvsa.vdmixv xfnux 
usmuvsxvdxpuvusmuvmvdyppv a.inrxcovndvmppvusxvdmiu.vinffxiux veausvusx
 xmusvndvsa.vgyx.uv.snyp vkxvnkumafx vdncvusxvgnn vfmtxvndvsa.vsny.xq

Fxmcvusx.xvuenvbxc.nfmgx.vexcxvicne x vungxusxcv.ajvtxfvafvusxvcnygs
gmckvndvsy.kmf txfqvUsxovinf.uauyux vusxvzyco,vmf vsm vkxxfv.encfvdnc
mvucyxvrxc aiuqvUsxvmiuncvem.vkxafgvxjmtafx vesxfvUmtencusvxfuxcx q
Ipn.x vafvkovusxvicne ,vUmtencusvem.vfnuvfnuaix vkovusxvisaxdvmiunc.
afvusxv cmtm,vmf veausvafuxcx.uvsxvpa.uxfx vunvusxvmiunc’.vux.uatnfoq
Sxvgmrxvmvrara vbaiuycxvndvsa.vxfinyfuxcafgvusxventmfvafvusxv mcwvsmpp
mf vsxcvdmafuafgvmuvusxvdnnuvndvusxv.umac.qvSxvunp vsnevsxvmf vusx
umb.uxcvsm vimccax vsxcvafunvusxvumb-cnnt,vmf vmuuxtbux vunvcxrarx
sxc;vndvsnev.sxvem.v cx..x vm.vusnygsvunvpxmrxvusxvumrxcf;vndvsnevusxo
sm vsxmc vdnnu.uxb.,vmf ,vbm..afgvmpnfgvusxvsmppvkxdncxvusxt,vsm v.xxf
Dcmfia.vDcmlxc,vesn,vmpusnygsv.xxafgvsa.veadx,vsm vfnuvbmy.x qvUsmu
sa.vdmixvem.v xmuspovbmpx,vm.vsxv a.mbbxmcx vuscnygsvusxv nncvunvusx
affomc qvUsmu,vmpmctx vusmuvusxventmfv a vfnuvcxrarx,vmf vatbmuaxfu
nrxcvDcmlxc’.vdmapycxvunvcxuycfvm.vusxovsm vmfuaiabmux ,vusxovimccax 
usxvyfinf.iany.ventmfvunvsxcvcnntqvUsmuvusxcxvusxovsm v.uytkpx vmgmaf.u
usxv xm vkn o,vesaisvsxva xfuadax vm.vIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexq

Usxfvusxveaufx..vexfuvdycusxcqvSxvsm vfnuvkxxfvmfvafuatmuxvmihymafumfix
ndvTmcpnex,vkyuvsxvsm vpnfgvwfnefvsatvkovcxbyuxvm.vmvbcafixvnd
gnn -dxppne.qvEausv.yisvdxxpafgvsm vsxvtxfuanfx vusa.vismcmiuxca.uai
ndvusxvtmf,vmf v a.inyc.x vnfvsa.vgxfay.vm.vmfvmiunc,vmf vecauxc,
usmuvusxvyfpxuuxcx vicne ,vesn.xvtn xpvdncvmvsxcnvinfdnctx vunvusx.x
bcnbncuanf.,vem.vcxm ovunvexxbvmuvusxvdycusxcvtxfuanfvndvsa.vfmtx,vnc
garxvau.vyfaux vxddncu.vunvusxvmbbcxsxf.anfvndvusxvtyc xcxcqvMpcxm o
usxvrnevem.vnfvmppvpab.vunvznafvafvusxvsyxvmf vicovyfuapvusxvbyc.yx 
em.vcyfvunvxmcusqvXmisvnfxvafvsa.vatmgafmuanfvsm vfnux v.ntxv mcwvfnnw
afvemo.a xvdncx.uvesxcxvbn..akpovusxvtyc xcxcvpmovinfixmpx ;vmf v.uapp
eausvkcxmuspx..vafuxcx.uvusxovsyfgvybnfvusxvenc .vndvusxvucmgaiv.bxmwxcq

Afvsnfx.uv x.acxvunv.xxvusxv xx vmrxfgx ,vusxvmiuncvux.uadax vun
esmuvsm vucmf.bacx vkxdncxvusxvucmgx o,vmf vafvrara vtmffxcvfmccmux 
usxvxba.n xvndvusxvumb-cnnt,vdcntvesxcxvusxv cmefv.enc vsm vkxxf
dac.uv a.bpmox ,vunvusxvbnafuvesxcxvusxvInyfuvsm v.y  xfpovkxggx 
unvkxvxjiy.x ,vmf vsm vhyauvusxvgmtxvndvsmlmc qv a vusxvInyfuvwfne
ndvTmcpnex’.vintafgvunvusxvumrxcf?vsxvm.wx v cmtmuaimppoqvSm vsx
dnctypmux vusxvtyc xcny.vafuxfuvmuvmfvsnycvpnfgvafvm rmfixvndvau.
xjxiyuanf?vSm vsxviyuvsatv nefvafvusxv mcwvmf vusxfv cmggx vsa.vkn o
afunvusa.vcnnt?

Mv.tnusxcx vicovndvmfgya.svmcn.xvdcntvusxvicne vmuvusxvpm.uvdaxcix
hyx.uanfvndvusxv.bxmwxc,vmf vusxf,vm.vafvmfuaiabmuanfvndvdycusxcvtnrafg
yuuxcmfix.,vusxv.apxfixvusmuvdxppvem.vnbbcx..arxqvAfvau,vusxvincnfxc
gpmfix vdncvusxvuexfuaxusvuatxvmuvusxvkpnn -.umafx vcmbaxcvusmuvpmo
ybnfvusxvumkpxqvSxvsm vfnuaix vusmuvauvem.vdcntvusxv.imkkmc vkxpux vun
usxvema.uvndvusxv xm vtmfqvKxdncxvusxvmiuncvinyp vcx.ytxvsxvm.wx :

“Em.vusmuvusxv.enc v cmefvafvusxvumb-cnnt?”

Usxvmiuncvgcm.bx vauvkovusxvsapuvmf vcma.x vauvkxdncxvsa.vdmixqvM
.sy  xcvexfuvuscnygsvusxvicne ;vkyuvfnvmf.excvimtxvdcntvsa.vpab.qvSx
pnnwx vmuvusxvkpm xvafvmtmlxtxfu,vusxfv.ma :

“Usa.va.vfnuvusxv.enc q”

“Usxf,”v.ma vusxvincnfxc,v“usxvInyfuvty.uvsmrxvkxxfvenyf x q”

“Nc,”v.yggx.ux v n .tmf,v“Tmcpnexvem.vwappx veausvsa.vnefvexmbnfq”

“Bn..akpo,”v.ma vusxvmiunc,vmf veausvusa.vxra xfuvcxdyumuanfvndvsa.
usxncovndvmfvyfdncemcfx vmuumiwvafvmv mcwvbm..mgx,vsxvipn.x vsa.
mcgytxfumuarxvux.uatnfoqvMuvusxvipn.xvndvusxvmiunc’.vxjmtafmuanf,
Uygvem.vimppx qvSa.vux.uatnfovinccnkncmux vusxvmiunc’.,vxjixbuvusmu
sxvaf.a.ux vusmuvusxvtmfvesnvsm vbm..x vuscnygsvusxvsmppvmf vafun
usxvaffomc vem.vTmcpnexqvUsa.v.umuxtxfuvicxmux vmv.xf.muanf,vkyu
usxveaufx..vkxafgvexmwvmf vrmiappmuafg,vyf xcvmvdacxvndvhyx.uanf.,
pn.uvsa.vbn.auarxvtmffxc,vmf vmuvpxfgusv.ma vusmuvsxvtagsuvsmrxvkxxf
ta.umwxfqvSnexrxc,vsa.v.umuxtxfuvsm vcma.x vusxvhyx.uanfvndva xfuauo,
mf vauvcxhyacx vusxvux.uatnfovndvmuvpxm.uvmfnusxcvunvipxmcvusxvtaf .vnd
usxvzycoq

Usxcxvem.vmvtnrxtxfuvfxmcvUmtencus,vm.v.ntxvnfxvafvcx.bnf.xvunvmfvnc xc
bm..x vafunvusxvsmpp;vmf vmvtntxfuvpmuxcvmvpm ovxfuxcx vusxv nncvmf 
bm..x vipn.xvkx.a xvsatvuscnygsvusxvicne qvSxcvdmixvem.v nefim.uvmf 
bmcuamppovinfixmpx vafvsxcvsmf wxcisaxdqv.sxvmrxcux vsxcvdmixvdcntvusx
 acxiuanfvndvusxvkx .uxm ,vmf vm.vsyccax povm.vauvem.vbn..akpxvunvtnrx,
eausv.nvtmfovbcx..afgvnfvmppv.a x.,v.sxvcxmisx vusxvismacvnbbn.auxvun
mf vdmiafgvusxvincnfxcqvYf xcvsa.vaf.ucyiuanfv.sxv.muv nefqvSxcvkmiw
em.vunemc vusxvkx .uxm qvAu.vniiybmfuvinyp vfnuvkxv.xxfvkovsxcvxjixbu
kovuycfafgvsxcvsxm q

Mppvafdnctmuanfvinfixcfafgvusxvafhyx.uvunvkxvsxp vusmuv movsm vkxxf
.x ypny.povwxbuvdcntvsxcqvUsxvpmf pnc ,veausvfnvwfnepx gxvm.vunvsa.
 yuax.vxausxcvunvsa.vgyx.uvncvunvusxvIcnef,vmf vmbbcxsxf.arxvusmuvmfo
tnrxvnfvsa.vbmcuvtagsuvafrnprxvsatvafvucnykpx,vsm v xuxctafx vunvwxxb
usxveadxvafvagfncmfixvndvmppvbcnixx afg.,vmf vnfvfnvinf auanfvunvmppne
usxv.xmpvnfvsxcvpab.vunvkxvkcnwxfvkovmfovnfxvxjixbuvusxvincnfxcqvYbnf
usxv a.inrxcovndvusxvicatxvmf vesapxv.sxv.uappvcxtmafx vyfinf.iany.,
.sxvsm vkxxfvimccax vunvmfvmbmcutxfuvm znafafgvsxcvnef,vesxcx,veausvusx
eadxvndvusxvpmf pnc ,v.sxvsm vkxxfvsxp vmemauafgvusxvafrx.uagmuanfvko
usxvmyusncauax.q

Auvem.vafvusa.vyfixcumafuovm.vunvesmuvem.vcxhyacx vndvsxc,vmf vm.vun
esmuvsm vkxintxvndvTmcpnex,vusmuv.sxvxfuxcx vusxvcnntvndvusxvafhyx.uq
.sxvmuvnfixvcxingfalx vusxvzy aiampvismcmiuxcvndvusxvbcnixx afg,vmf 
infipy x vusmuvauvem.vusxvafhyx.uvkxafgvsxp vnrxcvsxcvsy.kmf qvAuvem.
usxfvsxcvtxfumpvinttxfuvusmuvTmcpnexvsm vdmapx vafvusxvinfixmptxfuvnd
usxv xx q

Usxvincnfxcvm.wx :

“Onycvfmtxva.--?”

“MffxvDcmlxcq”

“UsxvInyfux..,”vimtxvusxvesa.bxcvndvmvusac vrnaixq

“Snevpnfgvsmrxvonyvkxxfvmuvusa.vumrxcf?”

“Dnycv mo.q”

“Excxvonyvafvusa.vcnntvmuvmfovuatxvkxdncxvuexprxvn’ipniwvpm.uvfagsu?”

“Avem.q”

“Dncvsnevpnfg?”

“Dcntvxmcpovafvusxv movyfuapvfxmcvusmuvsnycq”

“ a vonyveaufx..vusxv xmusvndvusa.vtmf?”

“Av a q”

“Em.vmfovnfxvxp.xvbcx.xfu?”

“Usxcxvem.q”

“Esn?”

Usxcxvem.vmvbcnpnfgx v.apxfixvmduxcvusa.vhyx.uanfqvEsxfvfnvmf.excvimtx,
usxvfxcrny.fx..vndvusxvpmf pnc v a.bpmox vau.xpdvkovusxv cyttafgvndvsa.
dafgxc.vnfvusxvumkpx,vmf vafvmv.incxvndvcmba vgpmfix.,vdac.uvmuvusx
eaufx..vmf vusxfvmuvusxvincnfxcqvAfv.ucawafgvinfucm.uveausv n .tmf’.
mfjaxuovem.vusxveaufx..qv.sxv.muv acxiupovkxdncxvusxvincnfxcvnfvusx
nbbn.auxv.a xvndvusxvumkpxqv.sxvsm vmf.excx vipxmcpovmf vunvusxvbnafu,
yfuapvusxv acxiuvhyx.uanfvimtxvm.vunvesnvem.vbcx.xfuvkx.a x.vsxc.xpdq
Usxfv.sxv.muvtyuxq

Umtencusvinyp vfnuvkyuvgmlxvafvm tacmuanfvmuvusa.veaufx..qvSxcvdmix
.snex vucmix.vndvmvfagsuvndvyfcx.uvmf vafuxf.xvusnygsuvmf venccoqvAd
usxcxvem.vmfov a.uyckmfixvndvtaf vdcntvusxvnc xmp,vauv a vfnuvbcxrxfu
usxvtmfadx.umuanfvndvmvcx.npyuanfvusmuvem.vmptn.uvsxcnaiqv.sxv.uxm apo
cxuycfx vusxvgmlxvndvusxvincnfxcvmf vcxtmafx vm.v.apxfuvm.vmv.bsafjq
Auvem.vusa.vmuuauy xvndv xuxctafmuanfvmf v.xpdvcxpamfix,vusmu,vxrxf
tncxvusmfvsxcvkxmyuo,vmemwxfx vusxvm tacmuanfvndvusxvpmeoxcqvSxvem.
fnuvmvtmfveausvsxmcuvesnppovyfcx.bnf.arxvunvusxvtmgfxua.tvndvkcappamfu
xox.;vkyuvsa.vfmuycmpv.y.ixbuakapauovsm vkxxfv.nvunfx vkovoxmc.vnd
xjbxcaxfix,vusmuvauvem.vusxvxjsakauanfvndv.ucxfgusvndv.nypvafvmfnusxc
usmuv.xuvusxv.ucafg.vndvsa.vkxafgvafvrakcmuanfq

“Esmuva.vonycvmf.exc?”

“Avimfvfnuvmf.exc,”v.ma vusxveaufx..,v xia x poq

Auvem.vsxcvunfxvusmuvimy.x vusxvincnfxcvunvdnckxmcvbcx..afgvusx
hyx.uanf;vmf veausvusxva xmvndvcxrxcuafgvunvau,vsxv.umcux vnfvmvfxe
umiwq

“Em.vmfovnfxvafzycx vxjixbuvusxv xm vtmf?”vsxvafhyacx ,vim.uafgvsa.
xox.vybnfvusxvcmbaxcq

“Fn,”v.sxvmf.excx q

Sxvfn  x v.agfadaimfupovunvusxvmiunc,vmf vmuvusxv.mtxvuatxv n .tmf
unyisx vsa.v.snyp xc,vesa.bxcafg,v“Tovusxncova.vcagsu;vTmcpnexvem.
.pmafveausvsa.vnefvexmbnfq”

“Em.vusxcxvmvintkmu?”

“Usxcxvem.q”

“Kyuvemau,”v.ma vusxvincnfxc,v“Avdncgnuvunvm.wvadvonyvexcxvpxgmppo--A
txmfvesxfvexcxvonyvtmccax ?”

“Nfvpm.uvMppv.mafu.’v movmuvusxvisycisvndv.uqvBxuxc’.vnfvIncfsappvaf
Pnf nfq”

“Unvusxvtmfveausvesntvonyvimtxvunvusa.vumrxcf?”

“Ox.,vtovPnc q”

“Fnevonyv.movusxcxvem.vmvintkmuqv a vknusvinfux.umfu.v cmevusxac
.enc .?”

“Usxov a q”

“Snevem.vauvusmuvusa.vtmfvem.vwappx veausvsa.vnefvexmbnf?”

“Av nvfnuvusafwvusmuvAvyf xc.umf vonycvhyx.uanf,”vmf.excx vusxveaufx..,
pnnwafgvmuvusxvincnfxcveausvmv.ycbca.x vxjbcx..anfvnfvsxcvdmixq

Usxviycumafvusmuvsa vusxvucyusvucxtkpx ;vusxv.pagsux.uvkcxmusvenyp 
smrxvcma.x vau,vmf vUmtencusvmpnfxvgcm.bx vusxvesnpxv.auymuanfqvAuvimtx
unvsatvpawxvmvdpm.sqvUsxventmfvm.voxuvxra xfupovwfxevfnusafgvndvusx
ismfgxvusmuvsm vkxxfvtm xvafvusxvmbbmcxpvndvusxvuenvtxfqvM.v.sxvwfxe
usmuvauvem.vsxcvsy.kmf vusmuvsm vkxxfv.pmaf,v.sxvsm vfnvcxm.nfvunvusafw
usmuvusa.vdmiuvem.vfnuvwfnefvunvxrxcovnfxvbcx.xfuqv.sxvem.vux.uadoafg,
m.v.sxv.ybbn.x ,vmuvmfvafhyacovnrxcvusxv xmusvndvDcmfia.vDcmlxcqvUsx
.auymuanfvem.vicauaimp;vdncvyf xcvmv.wappdypvxjmtafmuanf,vafiaux vko
sxcvmf.excvusmuvusxv xm vtmfvem.vfnuv.pmafvkovsa.vnefv.enc ,v.y.baianf.
tagsuvkxvmcny.x vmf vusxvucyxvdmiu.vcxrxmpx qvKyuvusxv.y  xffx..veaus
esaisvusxvpmeoxcvsm vmbbcxsxf x vusxv.auymuanf,vsm vfnuv.smwxfvsa.vwxxf
eauqvUsxvtxmf.vunvmrxcuv.yisvmvimum.ucnbsxvniiyccx vunvsat,vmf vkxdncx
usxvincnfxcvinyp vcxbxmuvusxvhyx.uanf,vsxv.ma vafvipxmcvunfx.vesais
cmfgvuscnygsvusxvcnnt:

“Onyvimfvfnuvm.wvsxcvdycusxcvinfixcfafgvusa.vtmuuxcqvUsxvpmevafvfnvim.x
mppnexusvusxveadxvunvux.uadovmgmaf.uvsxcvsy.kmf q”

Usxvxfucmfixvndvusxvtyc xcxcvsat.xpdvenyp vsmrxvicxmux vpauupxvtncx
xjiauxtxfuqvMppvxox.vexcxvuycfx vafvusxv acxiuanfvdcntvesaisvusx
rnaixvimtxqvUsxov.mevmvtmfv.umf afgvbcntafxfuvmta vusxvicne vfxmcvusx
 nncqvSxvem.vndv a.uafgya.sx vmbbxmcmfixqvSa.v.nduvkpmiwvsmu,veaus
sagsvicnef,vsm vusxvea xvcatvmuvau.vdcnfuvybuycfx v.nvusmuvusxvkcnm 
dncxsxm vndvusxvnefxcvem.vdyppovcxrxmpx qvKxpnevusa.vdxmuycxvndvusx
dmix,vbxfxucmuafgvxox.vpnnwx vdncusveausvmfvxjbcx..anfvndvyfinfhyxcmkpx
eappvbnexcqvSa.vusaiwvpyjycamfuv.sncuvkxmc vem.vucattx vafvusxv.uopx
usxfvencfvkovpmeoxc.qvUsxvpmuuxcvm ncftxfuvndvsa.vdmix,vmf vusxvdpneafg
pniw.vesaisvinfixmpx vsa.vxmc.,vcx.ux vnfvmvsagsvcyddvesaisvuycfx 
kcnm povnyuemc veausvpmix-dcafgx vx gxqvSa.vcaispovxtkcna xcx v nykpxu,
eausvdyppv.pxxrx.vinc x veausvesauxv.apw,vem.vndvkpmiwvpy.ucny.
umddxumq

Sxvcma.x vfxausxcvsa.vsmuvfncvsa.vsmf ,vm.vusxvincnfxcvgpmfix vmuvsat;
kyuvcxuycfx vusxvpmuuxc’.vgmlxveausv.nv.uxm ovmvpnnw,vusmuvfnvenc .vnd
cxtnf.ucmfixvdncvusxvafuxccybuanfvimtxvdncusqvUsmuvsxvem.vmvbxc.nfvnd
exagsuvmf vmyusncauovcxhyacx vfnvmffnyfixtxfuqvUsxvincnfxc’.vxjbcx..anf
.nduxfx ;vmf vafvusxvemovipxmcx vdncvsatvkovusxvenf xcafgvicne ,vsx
by.sx vdncemc q

“AvmtvUmtencus,vndvGcmo’.vAff,”vsxv.ma ,vafvpnexcvrnaix,v“mf vmbbxmcvm.
mvdcaxf vndvusxvinycuq”

Sxvem.v.umf afgvkx.a xvusxvumkpx,vm.vusx.xvenc .vexcxv.bnwxf;vmf vusx
nk.xhyany.v n .tmfvmcn.xvdcntvsa.vismac,vmf vemrx vsa.vsmf vdncvsat
unvkxv.xmux vkx.a xvusxvincnfxc,vesnvinyp vfnuvcxdcmafvdcntvkneafgvm.
gcmiany.povm.vsxvwfxevsneq

“M.vusxvbcnixx afgva.vafvkxsmpdvndvusxvIcnef,”vinfuafyx vusxvpmeoxc,
kxdncxvumwafgvusxvbcnddxcx vismac,v“auv.snyp vkxvinf yiux vafv.ucaiu
miinc mfixveausvpmeq”

“A.vauvfnuvkxafgv.nvinf yiux ?”vm.wx vusxvincnfxc,vafvmvrnaixvesaisvem.
.nduvmf vpneveausvcx.bxiuq

“Ox.;vxjixbuvesxcxvusxvmf.exc.vndvusxveaufx..vtmovuxf vunvicatafmuxvsxc
sy.kmf q”

“Ucyx,”vcxuycfx vusxvincnfxc,vm..ytafgvmfvmacvndvea. nt;vusxfvmduxcvm
tntxfu’.vusnygsu,vsxv.ma :v“Kyuvm.vexvsmrxvfnuvpxmcfx vsnevtmfovbxc.nf.
excxvbcx.xfu,vmf vm.vusxv.enc va.vxra xfupovfnuvusxvInyfu’.,vAvmt
ixcumafpovmuvpakxcuovunvxjsmy.uvusmuvpafxvndvxjmtafmuanfq”

“Yf nykux po,”vcxuycfx vUmtencusq

“Snevtmfovbxc.nf.vexcxvbcx.xfuvesxfvusa.v xx vniiyccx ?”vm.wx vusx
incnfxcq

“Uscxx,”v.ma vusxveaufx..q

“Onycvsy.kmf vem.vnfx?”

KxdncxvUmtencusvinyp vafuxcbn.xvmfvnkzxiuanf,vusxveaufx..vmf.excx vkovm
hyx.uanf,v“Esovm.wv.nvdnnpa.svmvhyx.uanf?”

Umtencusv.tapx ,vmf vmpusnygsvsxvwfxevusxvniim.anfvndvusxveaufx..’
afhyaco,vsxvpnnwx vmuvusxvincnfxcvmf v.ma :v“.xx,v.sxvwfnexusvusx
cagsu.vndvmveadxvmf veappvfnuvmf.excqvUsxcxva.vfnvpmevunvintbxpvsxcq”

Mffxvpnnwx vusmfwdyppovmuvsxcvismtbanf;vmf ,vmpusnygsv.sxvinyp vfnu
bxcixarxvsnevmfovmf.exc.vinyp vafvmfovemovmddxiuvsxcv xm vsy.kmf ,
.sxvinyp v.xxvusmuvusxvincnfxcvinf.a xcx vusxvpmeoxc’.vm tnfauanf.
.xcany.poqvUnvwfnevusmuv.sxvem.vfnuvesnppovmpnfxvafvsxcvxjucxtauo,vgmrx
sxcvm  auanfmpv.ucxfgusqvUsxvenc .vndvTmcpnex,v“Imf.uvusnyvwxxbvusa.
.xicxu?”vcmfgvafvsxcvxmc.qvUsxovsm v.uxxpx vsxcvmgmaf.uv a.ipn.ycxvnd
sa.vfmtxvmf vusxvmiinyfuvndvusxvintkmuq

Fnevimtxvusxvhyx.uanf,v“ nvonyvwfnevusxv xm vtmf,vIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnex?”

Usxveaufx..v.umcux vmuvusxvfmtxqvAuvem.vusxvdac.uvuatxvauvsm vkxxf
txfuanfx qvKyuvauvem.vfnuv.nvtyisvusmuvdmiuvm.vusxvemovafvesaisvauvem.
inybpx qvTmcpnex!vusxv xm vtmf!v.sxv.umcx vmuvusxvincnfxcveausviycany.
xjbcx..anfqvAuvem.vnfxvndvenf xcvgcneafgvafunvuxccncq

“Av nvfnuvyf xc.umf vony,”v.sxv.ma ,veausvucxtkpafgvrnaixqv“Usxv xm 
tmf,vIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnex?”

“Ox.,vsxvesnvem.vtyc xcx vko--”

“ xm ,vtyc xcx ,vesxf?”v.sxvafuxccybux ,vgcm.bafgvusxvmct.vndvusxvismac
mf vpxmfafgvdncemc q

“’Ua.vexppvmiux ,”vesa.bxcx vusxvpmf pnc q

“Tm mt,vusa.vappvkxintx.vony,”v.uxcfpov.ma vusxvincnfxcqv“Usa.vafhyx.u
a.vnrxcvTmcpnexqvOnycvsy.kmf ,vm.vexv.y.bxiu,vwappx vsatqvUsxvpmevaf
au.vea. ntvbcxrxfu.vonyvux.uadoafgvmgmaf.uvusxvtyc xcxc,vkyuvusxcxva.
fnvniim.anfvdncvusa.v a.bpmovnfvonycvbmcuqvMf.excvtxq”

Usxveaufx..vsm vmca.xfvdcntvsxcvismacvmf vuycfx vsxcvsxm qv.sxv.mevusx
dagycxvnfvusxvkx ,vmf v.umcux ,vdncvmuvusxvdac.uvgpatb.xv.sxvusnygsu
usxvincnfxc’.venc .vexcxvucyxqv.sxvcxingfalx vusxv.imcpxuv nykpxu,vrx.u
ndvusxv.mtxvinpnc,vmf vusxvcx.uvndvusxvmuuacxvm.vusmuvafvesaisvTmcpnex
sm vmbbxmcx qvUsxvdmix--ox.,vusmuvem.vmp.nvsa.,vkyu--fn,vauvem.vfnuq
.sxv.mfwvkmiwvafvsxcvismac,vmf ,vafvdyppvdpnn ,vpagsuvkyc.uvybnfvsxcq
Tmcpnexvsm vinfixmpx vusxvicatxq

“Avwfnevusxv xm vtmf,”v.sxv.ma vdactpo,v“Auva.vIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexq”




AFUNvUSXvPANF’.vTNYUSq

vvvv_Mf vuxppvsatvusmuvAvpmkncvmppvafvrmaf,_
vvvv_Unvxm.xvsa.vgcaxdvmf vencwvsa.vpakxcuo;_
vvvv_Mf vkxmcvsatvusa.vm.veaufx..vndvtovpnrxq_

vvvv--_X emc vAA,vr,v2q_

vvvv_N!vgarxvuso.xpdvusxvusmfw.,vadvmygsuvafvtx_
vvvv_Encusovbxcy.mpv.umf vmgmaf.uvusov.agsu;_
vvvv_Dncvesn’.v.nv ytkvusmuvimffnuvecauxvunvusxxq_

vvvv--_.nffxu,vjjjraaaq_


Muvusxvipn.xvndvMffx’.vux.uatnfovmf vesapxvusxvincnfxc’.vzycovem.vaf
 xpakxcmuanf,vUmtencusvsm vsm vmfvnbbncuyfauovunv.bxmwvunvsxcqvSx
.umux vusmuvTmcpnexvem.v.xicxux vafvusxvsxmcuvndvPnf nf,vkyuvesxcxvsx
enyp vfnuv a.ipn.x;vusmuvmfvxmcpovtxxuafgvem.v xrnyupovbcmox vdnc,vmf 
usmuvusxvtmafvbycbn.xvndvsa.vbcx.xfixvmuvusxvafhyx.uvem.vunvmccmfgxvdnc
au;vusmuvusxvisycisvndv.uqvNpmrxvafvusxvNp vZxecovem.v xxtx vusxvtn.u
infrxfaxfuvbpmix;vusmuv.sxvem.vunvkxvmuvau.vxfucmfixvybnfvusxvdnppneafg
.mkkmusvfagsuvmuvuxfvn’ipniwqvUsa.vem.vm.vtyisvm.vinyp vkxvinttyfaimux 
afvusxv.sncuv.bmixvndvuatxvmppnex qvMvcxm ovm..xfuvem.vgarxfvkovsxc,
mf veausvusa.,vUmtencusvpxduvusxvumrxcfvmf vcxuycfx vunvPnf nfqvSa.
 xbmcuycxvsm vkxxfvunnvsm.uo;vdncveausvmv xpmovndvmvdxevtntxfu.vsx
enyp vsmrxv a.inrxcx vusxvdcy.ucmuanfvndvsa.vbpmf.vdncvusxvtxxuafgqvKo
usxvpagsuvndv.yisv a.inrxcovmfnusxcvuco.uvtagsuvsmrxvkxxfvmccmfgx vkyu
auvem.v mcwfx..vusmuvxf.yx qvMffxvfxrxcvmbbxmcx vkxdncxvusxvisycisvnd
.uqvNpmrxq

Umtencusvsm vkxxfvimcxdypvunvmrna vcma.afgv.y.baianf.vusmuvsxvsm 
mfousafgvtncxvusmfvmvbm..afgvafuxcx.uvafvusxveadxvndvDcmfia.vDcmlxcq
Auvem.vusa.vusmuvimy.x vsatvunvpxmrxvkxdncxvusxvsnycvesaisvsxvusnygsu
enyp vtmcwvsxcv xbmcuycxqvAdvsxvsm vmuvmfovtntxfuvxfuxcumafx vusxva xm
usmuvusxvincnfxcvenyp vkaf vsxcvnrxcvunvmuuxf vkxdncxvusxvGcmf vZyco,
ncvafvInycu,vsxvsm v a.ta..x v.yisva xmveausvusxvusnygsuvusmuv.ycxuax.
dncvsxcvmuuxf mfixvenyp vkxvcxm apov.xiycx qvUsxvincnfxcv a vkaf vsxc
nrxcv x.bauxvUmtencus’.vcxixfuvxjbn.auanfvndvusxvpmevinfixcfafgvusx
eadx’.vafintbxuxfiovunvux.uadovmgmaf.uvsxcvsy.kmf qv.sxvem.vyfmkpxvun
.xiycxvkmapq

EsapxvMffxvem.vux.uadoafgvkxdncxvusxvincnfxcvafv.yisvtmffxcvm.vun
.xiycxvusxvbxmixvndvTmcpnex,vKmtxvem.vm.vlxmpny.povencwafgvdncvmf
xjmiupovinfucmcovnkzxiuqvAdvexv.snyp vsxcxvmffnyfixvusmuvmuvpxfgusvusx
xddncu.vndvMffxvkximtxvbxcrxcux vmf vznafx vusn.xvndvusxvtmfvesnvencwx 
dncv x.ucyiuanf,vauvenyp v.xxtvusmuvusa.vfmccmuanfvem.v x.ixf afgvunvm
ucmrx.uovndvpadx;vkyuv.yisvmvinfimuxfmuanfvndvxrxfu.vdnppnex ,vmf vau
mcn.xvm.vmvfmuycmpv.xhyxfixqvEsapxvUmkkmc ,veausvnfpovuxtbncmcovinfixcf
mf vusmuvtmafpovndvbxiyfamcovismcmiuxc,vsm vkcnygsuvmknyuvusxvtxxuafg
ndvusxvpnrxc.,vmf viaciytrxfux vusxvbnpaixvunvsa.vnefv x.ucyiuanf,
.sx,vesn.xvsxmcu.ucafg.vexcxvafuxcpmix veausvusn.xvndvusxvtmfvesntvusx
cy.uaivUmkkmc vsm vma x ,vsm vafrnprx vsatvafvmfvmddmacvesaisvem.vun
xipab.xvsa.vm.ixf afgv.umc,vmf vem.vunvbpmixvsatvafvusxvsmf .vndvsa.
mcisvxfxtoqvEsxf,vafvusxvEaf tappvumrxcf,vKmtxvsm vcxingfalx vUmkkmc 
mf vatmgafx vxrapvdcntvusxvsnkfnkkafgvndvusxvpmuuxcveausvusxvinf.umkpx,
sa.vdxmcvndvmvta.imccamgxvndvsa.vbpnuvndv x.ucyiuanfvsm vkxxfvaficxm.x 
kov.xxafgvusxvxjypumfuvxjbcx..anfvnfvUmkkmc ’.vdmixvm.vsxv x.ucnox 
usxvemccmfuqvMuvusmuvtntxfuvusxvismcmiuxcvndvusxv.imuuxcx vbmbxcvem.
yfwfnefvunvsatqvMppvusmuvsm vucmf.bacx vafvusxvEaf tappvdncix vsatvun
usxvinfipy.anfvusmuvsxvsm vkxxfvnyueauux qvSxvsm vnfpovcxmisx vusa.
.umgxvndvtaf vesxfvUmkkmc ’.vgpm..vdxppvdcntvsa.vsmf vmf vusxv.ucaiwxf
tmfvcnppx vunvusxvdpnncqvKmtxvem.vusxvdac.uvnfxvunvcxmisvusxvraiuatqvSx
sxmc vsa.venc .,vmf vusxfvbaiwx vybvusxvpmcgx.uvbaxix.vndvusxvemccmfuq
Sa.vmbbcxsxf.anf.vexcxvrxcadax ;vTmcpnexvsm vx.imbx vsatq

Usmuvfagsuvsxvsxp vmvragapvnrxcvusxv oafgvUmkkmc ,vesnvsm vkxxfvcxtnrx 
unvmvkx vismtkxcvndvusxvumrxcf,vmvicmtbx vcnntvafvmvincfxcvndvusx
kyap afg,veausvmvcnyf veaf nevpnnwafgv nefvafvusxvNp vZxecoqvYfuap
usxvxf vimtx,vKmtxvcxtmafx vkx.a xvusxv oafgvtmf,vfnuvafvusxv.bacau
ndvmvtafa.uxcafgvmfgxp,vkyuvunvgmafvafdnctmuanfvndvusxvesxcxmknyu.vnd
TmcpnexqvUmkkmc ’.v a.inffxiux vyuuxcmfix.vmknyuv xbudnc vmf v.ntxvnfx
esn.xvafuxcx.uvsxvsxp vmuvsxmcu,vinfrxox vfnvmk.npyuxvm..ycmfixvusmu
Tmcpnexvinyp vkxvdnyf vafvusxvpnimpauovtxfuanfx ;vkyuvauvem.vmv.ucme
muvesaisvusxvsxmcxcvgcm.bx qvUsxvmctncampv xraixvndvusxvsny.xvnd
.yccxovybnfvusxvsapuvndvUmkkmc ’.v.sncuv.enc vbcnipmatx vusxvexmcxc’.
 xbxf xfiovybnfvusxv ywxvndvusmuvfmtxqvKmtxvwfxevndv.mox.vInycu,vusx
inyfucovbpmixvndvusxv ywxvmuv xbudnc ,vmf vmuvnfixvafvtaf vsxvbpmix 
usxvmiuncvusxcxqvSm vfnuvusxvusxmuxc.vipn.x vdncvusxv.xm.nf?vSm 
fnuvusxv ywxveaus cmefvunv.mox.vInycuv ycafgvusxvbcxrmpxfixvndvusx
bpmgyxvafvPnf nf?vEm.vauvfnuvtncxvusmfvbcnkmkpxvusmuvusxvintbmfovnd
miunc.,vndvesaisvTmcpnexvem.vmvtxtkxc,vem.vgmusxcafgvmuv xbudnc vdnc
usxvxfuxcumaftxfuvndvcnompuo?vUsx.xvexcxvusxvtxfumpvhyx.uanf.vndvusx
Kcnefa.u,vmf vimccax vmddactmuarxvmf.exc.veausvusxtq

Mduxcvumwafgvusxvincb.xvndvUmkkmc vunvusxv xmus-imcu,vKmtx,vdac.u
umwafgvimcxvunv.xxvusmuvfnvtxtkxcvndvsa.v.xiuvem.veausafv.agsu,vsm 
cx-xfuxcx vusxvumrxcf,vkcmix vsat.xpdvybveausvmvgpm..vndvismcfain,
mf vdmppxfvm.pxxbvmuvnfxvndvusxvpmb-cnntvumkpx.qvAuvem.vkyuvmv.sncu
 nlx,vdncvusxvtncfafgv.uacvkxgmfvxmcpoqvSxvbmcunnwvndvkcxmwdm.uvesxcx
sxv.mu,vusxfvdyppvndvsa.vafuxfuvunv.xxvGorx.vbyfa.sx ,vmf vTmcpnex
mbbcxsxf x ,vsxvbm..x vafunvusxv.ucxxuqv.snbvkpaf .vexcxvkxafgvumwxf
 nef,vmf vusxv.ucxxuvicaxc.vkxgaffafgvusxacv mo-pnfgvfna.xqvUsxvpmuuxc
.snnwvsatvyfintdncumkpo,vdncvusxvfagsuvsm vgarxfvsatvfnvcx.u,vmf vusxcx
em.vfmygsuvusmuvmbbxmpx vunvsa.vemfu.vafvusxvicax.vndv“cy.sx.vgcxxf”
mf v“snuv.sxxb’.vdxxuq”vSxvcxhyacx vfnvcy.sx.vdncvusxvdpnnc.vndvsa.
 exppafgvmf vsa.vsyfgxcvsm vkxxfvmbbxm.x qvUsxviauuxcf.vbpmox vko
.ntxvkmckxc.vipn.xvmuvusxvincfxc,vesxcxvsxvbmy.x vunvinf.a xcvesxusxc
sxv.snyp vgnvdac.uvunvsa.vsntxvncvunvusxvZy.uaix,vem.vfnuvyfbpxm.mfu
ty.ai,vkyuvauvgcmux vsmc.spovnfvsa.vBycaumfaimpvxmc.;vmf vcxrarafgvsa.
usnygsu.vndvbpmosny.x.vmf vusxacvncisx.ucm.,vauv.umcux vsatvunemc 
usxvZy.uaix’.vnddaixqvUmkkmc ’.vsnc.x,v.uappv.umf afgvmuvusxvincfxc
ndv.uqvNpmrx,vmuucmiux vsa.vmuuxfuanfvm.vsxvemaux vdncvusxvZy.uaixvun
 cx..vsat.xpdvmf vintxvkxpneqvAuvem.vmv.ucmfgxvbpmixvdncvmvsnc.xvunvkx
uax qvUsxvisycisvem.vipn.x vmf vusxcxvexcxvfnvnbxfveaf ne.vfxmcvmuvsmf 
afunvesaisvusxvca xcvinyp vsmrxvrmfa.sx qvUmkkmc ’.v.byc.vsm vcma.x 
usxvhyxcovm.vunvesxcxvusxv xm vtmfvsm vpxduvsa.vsnc.x,vmf vafvusa.
dncpncf-pnnwafgv.uxx vsxvcxm vusxvmf.excqvSxv xuxctafx vunvbyuvsatvun
y.xvm.v.nnfvm.vmvbcnbxcvpmb.xvndvuatxvgmrxvm  auanfmpvm..ycmfixvusmuvsx
em.vcagsuvafvmuucakyuafgvnefxc.sabvunvUmkkmc q

Afvusxv.uyddov xfvndvusxvZy.uaix,vsxv.bcxm vusxvbcnndvndvGorx.’vnddxf.x
ybnfvusxvumkpx,vmf v.encxvunvmvintbpmafuvmgmaf.uvsatvdncvmvta. xtxmfnc
afvmppneafgvmfvmiiy.x vbxc.nfvunvx.imbxqvUsxfvsxvmbbpax vdncvmfvmpam.
emccmfuvnfvusxvnp vismcgxvndvkpm.bsxtovmgmaf.uvTmcpnex,vkyuvm.vau
mbbxmcx vusmuvusxvpmuuxcvsm vdpx vusxvinyfuco,vusxvZy.uaixv xipafx vun
miuvdycusxcvyfuapvsxvsm vm..ycmfixvusmuvusxvmiiy.x vem.veausafvcxmisvnd
sa.vbcnix..qvKmtxvaf.a.ux ,vkyuvusxvZy.uaixv.snnwvsa.vesnpxvsxmrovkn o
eausvusxvranpxfixvndvsa.vfxgmuarx.q

“Esmuvimfvkxv nfx?”v xtmf x vKmtxq

“.xxvusxvbykpaivbcn.xiyuncq”

“Imfvonyvfnuvm ra.xvdncvusxv.mwxvndvusxvisycis?”

“Pmovusxvismcgxvkxdncxvusxvsagsxcvmyusncauax.q”

“Esmu,vkxdncxvusxvHyxxf?vUsmuvsm.vkxxfv nfxq”

“Dncvesmuvbycbn.x,vesxfvonycvismcgxvem.vtm xvsxcx?”

“Unvgarxvauvgcxmuxcvbykpaiauoq”

“Em.vauvtm xv.ucnfg?”vhyx.uanfx vusxvZy.uaixq

“Mppvusmuvem.vfxix..mcovem.vunvhynuxvdcntvsa.vecauafg.,vmf vunvbnyf 
afunvusxvxmc.vndvusxvHyxxfvusxvhynumuanfvdcntvTmcpnex’.v‘ZxevndvTmpum’:

vvvv‘Tmfoveappvumpwvndvuaupxvunvmvicnef:
vvvvvEsmuvcagsuvsm vImx.mcvunvusxvxtbxco?
vvvvvTagsuvdac.uvtm xvwafg.,vmf vpme.vexcxvusxfvtn.uv.ycx
vvvvvEsxfvpawxvusxv cmin’.vusxovexcxvecauvafvkpnn q’”

“Gnn ,”v.ma vusxvZy.uaix,v“onyvexcxvxhympvunvonycvum.w,vkyuvonyv.snyp 
smrxvtm xvauvxrxfvtncxvkauuxc;vdncvadvusxvHyxxfva.vfnuvtnrx vkovonyc
dac.uvmiiy.muanf,v.sxveappvfnuvkxvkovmfousafgvpmuxcq”

“Auv.snex vusmuvsxvcxrapx vcxpaganf;vusmuvsxvbxc.ym x vnfxvtmfvun
kxintxvmfvmusxa.u;vusmuvsxvtxmfuvunvyuuxcvdmp.xvtnfxovndvusxvwafg ntq”

“’Ua.vusxv.mtxvismcgxvonyvtm xvmf v.encxvunvsxcxqvA.vauvesnppovucyx?”

“Imfvmfovicatxvkxvunnvsxafny.vunvmuucakyuxvunvmfvmusxa.u?”vm.wx vKmtx
eausvmvraiany.vxjbcx..anfvnfvsa.vdmixq

“Usxfv.yisvzy aiampvbcnix..vtmova..yxvdcntvusxvWafg’.vKxfisvunvkcafg
satvafvdcntvmfovinyfuovafvXfgpmf vesxcxrxcvsxvtmovkxvdnyf qvOnyvty.u
memauvusxvmiuanfvndvusmuvsagsxcvinycuq”

“’Ua.vmvgcmrxvbykpaiv yuo,”v.ma vKmtx,v.npxtfpo,v“mf vAvfnevgnvun
 xbudnc vunvpnimuxvsatvafvim.xvusxvHyxxfv.snyp vtnrxvusxvWafg’.vKxfis
unvmiuanfq”

Kmtxvtxuveausvtmfov xpmo.vkxdncxvsxvcn xvUmkkmc ’.vsnc.xvmicn..vPnf nf
Kca gxqvUsxvrxc aiuvndvusxvincnfxc’.vzycovsm vkxxfvcxuycfx ,vmf vusx
kn ovndvusxv.pmafvtmfvem.vkxafgvdnppnex vunvau.vcx.uafgvbpmixvafvusx
isycisomc vndv.uqvFaisnpm.vesxfvKmtxvnrxcunnwvusxv.tmppvdyfxcmpvincuxgx
zy.uvkxonf vusxvGnp xfvSaf qvUsxvtmzncauovndvusxvucmafvexcxvmiunc.vmf 
usxovkncxvusxvcnygsvknmc vinddafvnfvusxacv.snyp xc.qvAfvmf.excvunvsa.
hyxco,vusxovsm vsnfx.upovkyuvfnuvinccxiupov.umux vusmuvusxv xixm.x vem.
Tmcpnex,vmf vKmtx,vdxxpafgvusmuvusxvnkzxiuvndvsa.vecmusvsm vdncxrxc
x.imbx vsat,vmkcybupovcxafx vafvsa.vsnc.xq

“Esxcxvmcxvonyvumwafgvusxvkn o?”vsxvm.wx q

“Unv.uqvFaisnpm.,”vimtxvusxvmf.excq

“’Ua.vyfdauvdncvIsca.uamfvkycamp,”vsxvxjipmatx q

Sxvem.vmknyuvunv.movtncx,vkyuvgpmfix.vdcntv.xrxcmpvtxtkxc.vndvusx
gcnybvdcnlxvsa.vyuuxcmfixqvUsxvgpmfix.vtxmfuvranpxfixqvUsxovimtxvdcnt
usxvxox.vndvtxfvesnvcxingfalx vsatvm.vmvtxtkxcvndvusxv.xiuvesaisvfnu
nfpoviyc.x vusxacvbcndx..anfvkyuvem.vxf xmrncafgvunvicy.svusxtvnyuvnd
xja.uxfixqvSxv.eyfgvsa.vsnc.x’.vsxm vmcnyf vmf v ygvsa.vsxxp.vafvusx
mfatmp’.vdpmfw.qvDncvsa.vnefvgnn ,vsa.vdpagsuvsm vkxxfvexppvuatx ,vdnc
mppvusmuvcxmisx vsatvexcxvusxacvtxcaux vxjxicmuanf.q

MuvusxvGnp xfvSaf vsxvpxmcfx vndvusxvxrxfu.vndvusxvbm.uvuexfuo-dnyc
snyc.,vmf vm.vsxvumpwx vafvusxvumb-cnnt,vuscnygsvusxvixfuxcvimtxvusx
incnfxcqvMffxvem.veausvsatqv.sxvem.vunvmiintbmfovusxvnddaixcvunvusx
sny.xvndvusxv.sxcaddqvUsxvtxxuafgvkxuexxfvyfipxvmf vfaxixvem.vfnu
eausnyuvmfvxjsakauanfvnfvsxcvbmcuvndv.ntxusafgvmbbcnmisafgvdapamp
mddxiuanfqvAfvsa.vnefvsny.xsnp vsxvsm vxrxcvbcx.xfux vsat.xpdvm.
 xrna vndvmppvusxv.uxcfxcvmf vsmc.sxcvucmau.vesaisvtm xvsatvmfvnkzxiu
ndv a.pawxvmf vsmucx vafvusxvnyuxcvencp ,vmf vgcxmuv.otbmusovmf vpnrx
sm vxja.ux vkxuexxfvusxtqvSxcvxpnbxtxfuvsm v.smwxfvusx.xv.xfuatxfu.vaf
sat,vkyuvusa.vtxxuafgvsm vcxrarx vusxtqvUsxovinfdxccx vmbmcuvesapxvusx
gnn vfmuycx vincnfxcvmuuxtbux vunv cnefvusxvsxmuvndvsa.vpmuxvxjiauafg
.x..anfvkovtmfov xxbvknep.veausv n .tmfvmf v.xrxcmpvnk.xhyany.vmf 
m tacafgvpnyfgxc.q

Tmfovexcxvusxvhyx.uanf.veausvesaisvKmtxvbpax vsa.vfaxixqvEsntvsm 
.sxvtmccax ?vSnevimtxv.sxvsxcx?vEsxcxvsm vsxcvsy.kmf vdpx ?vMppvexcx
mf.excx vxjixbuvusxvpm.u,v.sxvtmafumafafgvxrxfveausvKmtxvusmuvTmcpnex
em.vusxv xm vtmfq

MuvusxvinfdxcxfixvkxuexxfvKmtxvmf vMffx,vauvem.v xia x vusmuvsxv.snyp 
znycfxovmuvnfixvunvImfuxckycovmf vafdnctvsxcvdmusxcvndvsxcvyfdncuyfmux
.auymuanfqvUsxcxvmbbxmcx vfnvnusxcvbpmfvkovesaisv.sxvinyp vkxvcxpxm.x q
Kmtxvmf vIcn..dnc v.snyp v.umf vm.v.ycxuax.vdncvsxcvdyuycxvmbbxmcmfixq
Usxvdnctxcvmgcxx vunvkcafgvmknyuvmvcxinfiapamuanfqvKyuvusxfvusxcxvem.
mvtmuuxcvesaisvunvsxcv.xxtx vndvtncxvbcx..afgvatbncumfixqv.sxvcxhyacx 
mvinycaxcvdncvusxvnbbn.auxv acxiuanf,vusmuva.,vunemc vPnf nfqvAuvunnw
.ntxv xpakxcmuanfvunvdnctypmuxvsxcv.uncovmf vm.vtyisvtncxvunv xuxctafx
esxusxcvauvexcxv.mdxvunvinfrxovxrxfvusa.v.uncovunvKmtxqvUsxvhyx.uanf
ndv.mdxuovinfixcfx vTmcpnexvnfpoqvSxcvcnm vdncvusxvtxxuafgvnfvusx
dnppneafgv.yf movxrxfafgvmuvusxvisycisvndv.uqvNpmrxvem.vkpniwx vm.
xddxiuymppovm.vusnygsvbca.nfvkmc.vsxp vsxcvafqvUsxvbcnta.xvdncvsxc
mbbxmcmfixvusxcxvsm vgnfxvdcntvsxcvdcxxpoqvFxausxcv.sx,vfncvUmtencus,
sm v.yggx.ux vmfovtxmf.vncvtxusn vdncvdycusxcvinttyfaimuanfvkxuexxf
sxc.xpdvmf vTmcpnex,v.snyp vusxacvtxxuafg,vm.vbcnbn.x ,vkxvbcxrxfux q
Usxvusnygsuvndvsa.vkxafgvmvdygauarxvdcntvzy.uaixvsm vmbbmppx vsxcvm.vun
au.vdmcvcxmisafgvinf.xhyxfix.vunvsxc.xpdqvAuvem.vnfpovafv.ntxvdncxagf
inyfuco,vyfwfnefvunvsxc.xpd,vusmuv.sxvsm vbaiuycx vsatqvUmtencus’.
inttyfaimuanfvsm v.imuuxcx vsxcvdxmc.qvUsxvnc xcvndvusxvincnfxcvdnc
sxcv xuxfuanfvsm vmgmafvbpyfgx vsxcvafunvmv xxbxcvbauvndv x.bmacqvSxcx
em.vusxvnbbncuyfauovunvinfrxovusxvcxm.nfvndvsxcvafmkapauovunvtxxu
satvm.vbcnta.x ,vmf vunvbn.uvsatvndvsxcvdyuycxqv.sxvcxmpalx vusmuvau
em.vmv mfgxcny.vtmuuxcvunvcyfvmfonfxvafunvinfumiuveausvTmcpnex,vkyu
sxcxv.sxvmbbcxsxf x vfnv mfgxcqvYbvunvusxvuatxvndvsxcv xbmcuycxvdcnt
Kmtx’.vsny.x,v.sxvwfxevusmuvKmtxvem.vmv.ucmfgxcvunvusxvtmfvafvhyx.uanfq
Auvem.vfnuvnfpovyfpawxpovkyuvsagspovatbcnkmkpxvusmuvsx,vmv xrnyu
Kcnefa.u,v.snyp vwfnevusxvpaixf.x vbpmoxc,vmf vyfpaixf.x vecauxcqvUsy.
cxm.nfafg,v.sxvbpmix vusxvtmfv.sxvpnrx vafunvusxvsmf .vndvsa.vtn.u
atbpmimkpxvxfxtoq

Auvem.vnfxvndvsxcvsy.kmf ’.vdcaxf .,v.sxv.ma ,vesnvenyp vkxvmuvusx
xfucmfixvndvusxvbmca.svisycisvndv.uqvNpmrxvmuvuxfvn’ipniwvnfvusx
xrxfafgvndvZyfxv--qvUsxvtxxuafgvsm vkxxfvmccmfgx vkxdncxvusxv yxpvmu
usxvumrxcfqvAuvinfixcfx vsa.v xbmcuycxvdcntvXfgpmf qvSa.vdpagsu,v.sx
infuafyx ,venyp vbcxrxfuvusxvtxxuafgqvAuvem.vmvtmuuxcvndvgcxmuvinfixcf,
mf vmuvusxvtntxfuvndvusxv.xbmcmuanfvkxuexxfvsxc.xpdvmf vsy.kmf v.sxvsm 
bcnta.x vunvtxxuvusxvtmfvesnvenyp vkxvafvemauafgvdncvsatqvEnyp vKmtx
miuvafvsxcvkxsmpd?vUsxv.umuxtxfuvem.vbpmy.akpx,vkyuvKmtxv.mevtncxvaf
auvusmfvsxcvenc .vinfrxox qvSnexrxc,vesxusxcvusxvtxxuafgvem.vndvsxc
nefvinfixcuanf,veausvmvfmtxpx..vtmfvncveausvsxcvsy.kmf ,vesntvKmtxvsm 
fxrxcv.xxf,v a vfnuv.xxtvndvatbncumfixqvEsmuvtx..mgxvem.vsxvunvkxmc?

.sxvecnux,vafvdxevenc .,vndvsxcvbcx aimtxfuvmf vbcn.bxiu.;v.sxv.xmpx 
au,vmf v xparxcx vauvunvKmtxqvUsxvta..arxvcmfvusy.:v“Avsmrxvenc vndvuso
bcx.xfuv.mdxuovmf vcxznaix;vdncvtov.auymuanfvsm vtm xvtxvdxmcdypvnd
usafxvnefqvUnvusovcxhyx.uvdncvtxvunvtxxuvusxx,vAvcxuycfx vtovbcnta.x;
kyuvfnevusxvsnbxvndvintbpamfixvsmusvrmfa.sx qvAvmtvsxp vm.vmveaufx..q
Advusxvuxctafmuanfvndvtovatbca.nftxfuva.v xbxf xfuvybnfvusovmccx.u,
AvbcmovusmuvAvtmovfxrxcvkxvmuvpakxcuoqvSnexrxc,vAvsmrxvsnbxvndvmf
xmcpovcxpxm.x,vmf vndvgnafgvunvtovdmusxc’.vsny.xvafvImfuxckycoqvAfvusx
txmfuatxvkxvinfuxfu,vAvbcmovusxx,veausvusxvm..ycmfixvndvtovpnrxqvUsx
kxmcxcva.vunvkxvucy.ux qvSxva.vtovyfipxvmf veappvcxuycfvsxcxveausvuso
mf.excqvPxuvauvkxvndvesxcxvAvimfvdaf vusxxvpmuxcqv.xmpx veausvtovpnrxq
Mffxq”

vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*

Auvsm.vumwxfvtmfovbmgx.vunvfmccmuxvxrxfu.vinrxcafgvnfpovmvdyppv movaf
.bmixvndvuatx;vkyuvafvintbmca.nfveausvusxvrm.uvsmcrx.u.vndvpauxcmuycx
usmuvsmrxvkxxfvgpxmfx vdcntvusxv.neafgvndvusxvfagsuvndvZyfxv1,v1593,
usa.v.npxvfnuafgvndvusxv.uxb.vndvusxvsy.kmf txfvesnv.imuuxcx vusxv.xx ,
a.vkyuvmv.afgpxv.sxmdqvMf vfneveausvusxvincnfxc’.vrxc aiuvaf,vDcmfia.
Dcmlxcvkycax vyf xcvusxvfmtxvndvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnex,vusxvpmuuxcv mcwpo
kcnn afgvafvnk.iycxv.mdxuo,vmf vusxvencp v.nvinfo-imuisx vusmuvnfpo
mduxcvmfvafuxcrmpvndv300voxmc.v nusvauv.xxvipxmcpo,vexveappvucmixvusx
 mcwvxrxfu.vpxm afgvybvunvusxv mcwxcvxf afgvndvKmtxq

Caismc vKmtxvem.vsyfgvmuvUokycfvnfvusxv6usvndv xixtkxc,v1594qvUsmu
xrxfuva.vsa.uncaimp,vmf vauva.vexppvunvdajvauvafvusxvtaf vndvusx
cxm xcvkxdncxv cmeafgvsa.vmuuxfuanfvunvmvfmccmuanfvndvesmuvtmovsmrx
kxxfvusxvcxm.nf.vdncvusa.vucmgx oqvAfvusa.vinffxiuanfvauva.vmp.nvexpp
unvxtbsm.alxvmvdxevnusxcvsa.uncaimpvdmiu.qvUsxvmiiy.muanfvmgmaf.u
Tmcpnexvdncvkpm.bsxtovem.vmiuymppovbpmix vkxdncxvusxvHyxxfv[fnuxv31]q
AdvTmcpnex’.v xmusvdnppnex v.nvipn.xpovnfvusxvsxxp.vndvusa.vbcnbn.x 
ragncny.vbcn.xiyuanfvndvsatvdncvusmuvxiipx.am.uaimpvicatx,vauvem.vm
cxtmcwmkpxvinafia xfixqvInfraiuanfvenyp vsmrxvkxxfvixcumafqvAuvcxhyacx 
fnvcxm afgvkxuexxfvusxvpafx.vndvDmy.uy.vmf vusxvZxevndvTmpumqvDpagsu,
ncvinfixmptxfu,vem.vusxvnfpovx.imbxvdncvsatqvEsmuvem.vkxuuxcvimpiypmux 
unv.umovmv.xmcisvmf vmrxcuvmbbcxsxf.anf,vusmfvmvcxbncuvndv xmus?vUsx
cxbncu.,vtmfovmf vinfucm aiunco,vmbbxmcx v[fnux.v9-13]q

Kyuvesovem.vsa.vmiiy.xcvsyfg?vEm.vauv yxvunvcxrxfgxdypvafdpyxfix.
encwafgvdncvTmcpnex,vusmuvKmtx,vexmcafgvusxviniwm xvndvusxvinf xtfx ,
bm..x vuscnygsvicne .v nefvUokycf-cnm vnfvsa.vpm.uvxmcuspovca x?vNcvem.
usa.vsnccakpxviyptafmuanfvndvsa.v mo.v yxvesnppovunvsa.vnefvta.mbbpax 
lxmpvmf vmvimum.ucnbsxvndvicatafmpvismcmiuxc?




USXv.MIWAFGvNDv.UqvNPMRXq

vvvv_EsmuvGn ,vncvdaxf ,vncv.bacauvndvusxvxmcus,_
vvvv_Ncvtnf.uxcvuycfx vunvmvtmfpov.smbx,_
vvvv_Ncvndvesmuvtnyp vncvtxumpvkxvsxvtm x,_
vvvv_Pxuvy.vbyuvnfvnycvtxxuvxfinyfuxcafgvtaf .q_

vvvv--_AvUmtkycpmafx,vaa,v6q_

vvvv_Esmuvmcuvusnyvusmuvyc.ycb’.uvusa.vuatxvndvfagsu_
vvvv_Ungxusxcveausvusmuvdmacvmf vemcpawxvdnct_
vvvv_Afvesaisvusxvtmzx.uovndvkycax v xftmcw_
vvvv_ a v.ntxuatx.vtmcis?_

vvvv--_Smtpxu,va,v1q_


Mv.unctvndvmptn.uvyfbcxix xfux vdycovsm vbcxrmapx vafvPnf nfvdcnt
xmcpovxrxfafgvnfvZyfxv--,v1593qvUsxveaf ,vintafgv.ucnfgvdcntvusx
fncusxm.u,vaficxm.x vafvranpxfixvm.vusxvsnyc.vbm..x ,vmf vnyuvndvsxmro
kpmiwvipny .vusxvcmafvdxppvafvunccxfu.qvAuvem.vmvfagsuvdncvxrxconfxvaf
Ta  px.xjvunvkxvexppvsny.x vmf vdncgxudypvndvusxv.xmqvMgmafvmf vmgmaf,
usxv.npxvaftmuxvndvusxvncmuncovafvusxvBcafix’.vEmc cnkxvsm vpnnwx 
nyuvafunvusxvfagsuqvSxvinyp vfnuv.xxvkxonf vusxvdpoafgvkyuucx..x.vmu
usxvx gx.vndvusxveaf ne,vxjixbuvesxfvmfvniim.anfmpvdpm.svndvpagsufafg
.xmcx vusxv mcwfx..qvYf xcvusx.xvdpm.sx.vusxvfxmcvisycisomc vmbbxmcx 
m.vdpxxuafgvmf vm.v.nccnedypvm.vusxvdmixvndvusxvdmppxfvmfgxpvafvnyc
 cxmt.;vmf vusxvrxfxcmkpxvempp.vndv.uqvNpmrxvpnnwx vxrxfvtncxvrxfxcmkpx
mf vgpnntovm.vusxov.unn vdncusveausv.umcupafgv a.uafiufx..qvXrxco
icmffovkximtxvmvtmcwx vdxmuycxvndvau.vra.akpxv.a xvmf vusxvpnfgveaf ne.
dcntvusxacv xxbv.xuuafgv.snex vusxvusaiwfx..vndvusxvtm.nfcovmf vusx
cmfwfx..vndvusxvixfuyco-gcneusvndvrafx.vusmuvipy.uxcx vmcnyf vusxtq

Auvem.vusxvfagsuvnfvesaisvTmcpnexvxjbxiux vtxxuafgvMffx,vmf vusxv.unct
tm xvsatvmbbcxsxf.arxvusmuvusxacvbpmf.vtagsuvkxvdcy.ucmux qvUsa.
yfxm.afx..vimy.x vsatvunvpxmrxvusxvncmuncovpnfgvkxdncxvusxvmbbnafux 
snycqvUmtencusvem.vfnuvafvsa.vmbmcutxfuvm.vTmcpnexvxfuxcx vau,vmf 
eausvpagsux vimf pxv x.ixf x vusxv.umac.vafunvusxvyf xcgcnyf vbm..mgx
pxm afgvunvusxvisycisqvSxvcxmisx vau.vxf veausvsm.uov.uxb.,vmf vsmrafg
nfvmvbcxrany.vfagsuv.yiixx x vafvbyuuafgvafvencwafgvnc xcvusxvsafgx.
nfvusxv.pmkvusmuvsm vkpniwx vdycusxcvbm..mgx,vsxvxfuxcx vusxvismfixp
ndvusxvisycisqvMv mcwfx..vm.vmk.npyuxvm.vusmuvndvusxvfagsuvbcxrmapx 
afvusxvisycis,vxjixbuvesxcx,vmuvusxv a.umfixvndvmvsyf cx vdxxu,vusx
pagsu.vdcntvusxvismfucov.snfxvmicn..vmv.ucabvndvkxfisx.vncvcy xvbxe.q
Sxvicxbuvimyuany.povunvusxvnbxfv nncvndvusa.vismfucovunv.xxvusmuvfnvnfx
em.vafvauvmf vusxfvcxucmix vsa.v.uxb.vunvusxvismfixpvesxcxvsxvpnexcx 
usxvcma.x v.pmkvunvau.vbpmix,vumwafgvimcxvunvdxxpvau.v a.umfixvdcntvusx
cmapvfxmcvmuvsmf qvSxvusxfvbm..x vuscnygsvusxvkn ovndvusxvisycis,vmf 
smrafgvcxmisx vusxvta  pxv nncvmuvusxvdcnfu,vsxvyfknpux vauvmf v.uxbbx 
eausnyuqvSxvdxpuvmicn..vxrxcov.uxbvndvusxvea xvxfucmfix,vmf vdaf afg
usmuvsxvem.vmpnfx,vsxvunnwvybvsa.v.umuanfvfxmcvusxv nncvesaisvsxvsm 
pnn.xpovipn.x q

Auvem.vmknyuvusa.vuatxvusmuvKmtxvpxduvsa.vsny.xvmf v.umcux vdncv.uq
NpmrxqvKxdncxv nafgv.nvsxvsm vumwxfvnddvsa.vinfrxfuanfmpvgmckvmf 
 nffx vsa.v.smkkax.uv.yauqvKmtxvem.vfnuvmiiy.untx vunvimccovmfovexmbnf,
kyuvusxv.unctvmf vusxv mcwfx..vbcntbux vsatvunvkxpuvmv.enc vunvsa.
ema.uqvAuvem.veausv addaiypuovusmuvsxvtm xvmfovbcngcx..vafvusxv.unct,
mf vmuvpxfgusvcxmisx vusxv.uxb.vndvusxvisycisqvSxcxvsxv.unn vdncvm
tntxfuvafvusxvtxmgxcv.sxpuxcvmddnc x vkovnfxvndvusxvinpytf.vndvusx
bncuain,vmf vusxfvkxgmfvtnrafgveausvxjuxf x vsmf .vunemc vusxvxfucmfixq
Sxvinyp v.xxvfnusafg,vmf vdncv.ntxvuatxvafvsa.vtxm.ycx vbcngcx..vsx
xfinyfuxcx vfnusafgvkyuvnbxfv.bmixvncvusxv.unfxvemppqv.y  xfpovmvdpm.s
ndvpagsufafgvappytafmux vusxvbncuainqvAfvauvsxv.mevmvtmfvafvpnn.x
ipnmwv.umf afgvkx.a xvsatqvFxausxcvsm vcxmpalx vusxvbcx.xfixvndvusx
nusxcvyfuapvusxvdpm.svcxrxmpx vau;vkyuvafvauvKmtxvimygsuvfnvgpatb.xvnd
Tmcpnex’.vdmixq

“Snp !”vsxv.ma ,vm.vusxvipnmwx vdagycxv.uxbbx vkmiwemc vmf vmgmafvem.
xfuacxpovxfrxpnbx vkovusxv mcwfx..qvAdvusxcxvexcxvmfovmf.excvunvusa.
inttmf ,vauvem.v cnefx vkovusxvcnppvndvusyf xcvesaisvdnppnex vusx
pagsufafgq

“Onyvmemauvmvpm ovsxcx,v nvonyvfnu?”vinfuafyx vKmtx,vbcnixx afgvnfvusx
usxncovusmuvusxvtmfvem.vDcmfia.vDcmlxc,v“Expp,vAvintxveausvenc vdcnt
sxcq”

.uappvfnvmf.excvimtxqvKmtxvcxmisx vdncemc vmf vunyisx vusxv.snyp xcvnd
usxv.apxfuvdagycx,v.moafgvm.vsxv a v.n,v“AvintxvdcntvMffxq”

“.n,vesmuva.vusxvtx..mgx?”

“.sxva.vsxp vafviy.un ovkovusxvincnfxcq”

“Dncvesmuvbycbn.x?”

“M.vmveaufx..vkxdncxvusxvgcmf vzycoq”

“Esxfv a vonyv.xxvsxc?”

“Nfvusxv movndvusxvafhyx.uq”

“Esnvmcxvony?”

Usxcxvem.v.ntxusafgvafvusxvrnaixvusmuv.ucyiwvKmtxvbxiypamcpoqvSxvsm 
sxmc vauvkxdncx,vkyuv.ntxsnevauvicxmux vmvdxxpafgvndvmex,vmf vmf
afrnpyfumcov.sy  xcvbm..x vuscnygsvsatqvUsxvcxm.nfvndvusa.vdxxpafgvem.
fnuvmbbmcxfuqvSxvem.vmfjany.vunv xuxctafxvau.vimy.xqvSxvmf.excx vusx
pm.uvhyx.uanfvkovnfxvpawxvauq

“Esnvmcxvony?”

“Esmuva.vusxvbycbn.xvndvonycvhyxco?vMcxvonyvfnuv.mua.dax vusmuvAvmt
usxvbxc.nfvesntvonyv.xxw?vOnyvimtxvdcntvnfxvmuv xbudnc qvA.vusmuvfnu
.yddaiaxfuvunvm..ycxvony?vAdv.sxv a vfnuvuxppvonyvesnvAvmt,vusxcxva.vfn
niim.anfvdncvonycvwfneafgq”

Kmtxvdxpuvatbxppx vunv.movusmuvusxvcxm.nfvndvsa.vm.wafgvem.vkximy.xvsx
usnygsuvsxvwfxevusxv.bxmwxc,vncvmuvpxm.uvusxvrnaixvem.vdmtapamc;vkyu
sa.vfmuycmpvimyuanfvcx.ucmafx vsatqvSxv.ma veausvappvcxm.nf:

“KxdncxvAv xparxcx vusxvtx..mgxvAvea.sx vunvkxvm..ycx vusmuvonyvexcx
usxvnfxvdncvesntvauvem.vafuxf x q”

“Nyuvybnfvony,”v.ma vusxvnusxc,v“Adv.sxvgmrxvonyvfnvfmtx,vtovuxppafgvau
inyp vgarxvonyvfnvm..ycmfix;vkyuvusa.vumpwva.va pxvesapxvgy.u.vndvcmaf
kpnevafvybnfvy.qvOnyvsmrxvdnyf vtxqvSmrxv nfxveausvenc .qvEsmuva.vusx
tx..mgx?”

“Auva.vecauuxf,”v.ma vKmtxq

“Expp,vgarxvauvtx,”vxjipmatx vusxvnusxcvatbmuaxfupoq

“Usxcxva.vmfvmf.excvxjbxiux q”

“Mf vonyvmcxvunvkxmcvau?”

“Ox.;vesxcxvimfvonyvcxm vesapxvAvemau?”

“EausafvusxvisycisqvMvpagsuvkycf.vafvusxvismfucoq”

Kmtxvdytkpx vafvusxvbniwxuvndvsa.v nykpxu,vmf vusxfvsxv.ma :v“Avimfvfnu
 a.uafgya.svauvdcntvnusxcvbmbxc.qvAvcxhyacxvmvpagsuvunvdaf vauqvPxuvy.
.uxbvunvusxvfxmcx.uvumrxcfq”

“Fmo,v’uenyp vkxvmvem.uxvndvuatxqvDnppnevtxq”

Sxvby.sx vnfvusxv nncvkxsaf vsat,vmf vKmtxvsxmc vsafgx.vicxmw,vkyuvmpp
mknyuvsatvem.v.uappvecmbbx vafv mcwfx..q

“Afunvusxvisycis?”vsxvdmpuxcx q

“MoxqvFnuvmvenc q”

Sa.vsmf vem.vgcm.bx vmf vsxvdnppnex qvSxvdxpuvsa.vxfucmfixvunvkx
mv.micapxgxvmf vsa.vmexvinfixcfafgvsa.vintbmfanfvaficxm.x vsa.
ucxba muanfqvEsxfvmuvpxfgusvusxvxfucmfixvunvusxvkn ovndvusxvisycisvem.
cxmisx ,vmvdmafuvgpnevndvpagsuvinyp vkxv.xxfvdcntvmvfmccnev.bmixvaf
nfxvemppqvUnemc vusa.vusxovtnrx vybvusxv mcwvma.px,vdxxpafgvusxvyf.xxf
bxe.vm.vusxovbm..x qvYbnfvdmiafgvusa.vgpneafgv.bmix,vusxovbxcixarx 
usxvismfucoqvAuvem.v.nv.tmppvusmuvauvsmc povtxcaux vusxvfmtx;vkyu,
ca.afgvdcntvusxvtmckpxvdpnnc,vem.vusxvpne,vcaispo-imcrx vuntkvndvusx
dnyf xcvndvusxvisycis,veausvcma.x vdnfuvkxdncxvau,vmf ,vafvfaisx.vaf
usxvemppvkxsaf vau,v.ajvkpmlafgvimf px.qvAu.vempp.vexcxvndv.npa v.unfx
mf vfnvnusxcv nncvncveaf ne.vnbxfx vdcntvauqvUsxvmcisx vixapafgvcn.x
.imcixpovxagsuvdxxuvnrxcsxm vmf vkncxvfnvucmixcovfncv.uyiinvencwvybnf
au.v.ycdmixqvAfunvusa.vismfucovusxovxfuxcx qvKmtx,vdncgxuuafgvunvtmwx
mvbcxuxf x v.xmcisvafvsa.vbniwxuvdncvusxvtx..mgx,vsm.uapovsmf x vauvun
TmcpnexqvMf vfnevusxvpagsu.vexcxvfxmcvmf v.ucnfgvxfnygsvunv.snevipxmcpo
usxvdmix.vndvusxvuenvtxfqvKmtx’.vxox.vmf vtnyusvkx.bnwxvmfvm.unfa.stxfu
usmuvmptn.uvcnkkx vsatvndvusxvbnexcvndv.bxxisqvSxvcxingfalx vusxvtmf
kx.a xvsat,vkyuvusxvpmuuxcveausnyuvxrxfvmvgpmfixvmuvsa.vintbmfanf,
fxcrny.povkcnwxvusxv.xmpvndvusxvpxuuxc,vmf vbm..afgvmcnyf vusxvuntk,
sxp vauv.nvusmuvusxvcmo.vdcntvusxvimf px.vdxppvybnfvauqvKmtxvsm 
fnuaix vusmuvTmcpnexvem.veausnyuvmv.enc ,vmf vkxdncxvusxv.xinf vpafxvnd
usxvtx..mgxvsm vkxxfvcxm vsxvafuxccybux vusxvcxm afgveausvusxvenc .:

“Avusnygsuvusnyvem.uv xm q”

Tmcpnexvcma.x vsa.vxox.vmf vgpmcx vafvenf xcvmuvusxv.bxmwxc,vesn
infuafyx :

“UsnyvmcuvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexq”

Tmcpnexvpxmfx vkmiwvmgmaf.uvusxvemppveausvsa.vsmf .v.nvuagsupovipxfisx 
usmuvusxacvfmap.vmptn.uvxfuxcx vsa.vbmpt.qvUsxv.inepvgcxev xxbvnf
sa.vdmix,vkyuvfnvenc .vimtxvdcntvsa.vpab.qvAuv.xxtx vfnvniim.anfvdnc
.bxxis,vmf vmiuanfvnfvsa.vbmcuvem.vdncx.umppx ;vdncvKmtxvsm v cmefvsa.
.sncuv.enc q

“AvmtvCaismc vKmtxqvOnyvsmrxvyf nykux povsxmc vndvtxvm.vusxvyfipxvnd
Mffxq”

“Mf vm.vusxv.exmcxcvndvdmp.xvmf vrapxvismcgx.vmgmaf.uvusxvtmfvndvesnt
onyv.bxmw,”v.ma vTmcpnex,vsa.vrnaixvatbxuyny.povkcxmwafgvdncusq

“Mgmaf.uvonyc.xpd,”vafuxccybux vKmtx,v“kyuvfnuvm.vmvdmp.xvmiiy.xcq
Pa.uxfvunvtxq”

“Kyuvesov.snyp vA;vmf vesovsmrxvonyv cmefvmvexmbnf?vOnyv.xxvusmuvAvmt
 xdxf.xpx..qvOnyvimtxvafvusxvismcmiuxcvndvmvkxmcxcvndvgnn vua afg.;
esov nvonyvfnevm..ytxvmvranpxfuvdcnfu?vA.vauvfnuvxfnygsvusmuvAvmtvusx
dcaxf vndvusxvnfxvdcntvesntvonyvintx--onycvfaxix?vSmrxvAvxrxcvecnfgx 
ony?vByuv nefvonycv.enc !vxrxfvusnygsvusxvuatxvexcxvnbbncuyfxvdnc
tyc xc,vusxv.mfiuauovndvusxvbpmixv.snyp v.umovonycvsmf qv nusvfnuvau.
snpafx..vmbbxmpvunvusxx?”

Kmtxvkxgmfveausvusxvxisnvndvusxvpm.uvenc :

“Onyv.bxmwvexpp,vkyuvunvfnvbycbn.xqvOnyvsmrxvcxf xcx vtxvfnvbxc.nfmp
afzyco,vkyuvonyvsmrxvmuumiwx vfnuvnfpovtovisycis,vkyuvmppvisycisx.,
mppvdmaus,vmppvcxpaganf.qvFn,”vsxvinfuafyx ,v.smwafgvsa.v.enc vafvsa.
dxcrncvm.vTmcpnexvem.vmknyuvunvcxbpo,v“PxuvtxvgnvnfqvFnusafgva.v.micx 
afvusafxvxox.----”

“Ixm.x,”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,v“Onyvwfnevpauupxvndvesmuvonyv.bxmwqvKpaf x 
kovmvdmfmuaia.t,vfmccne,vranpxfuvmf vbxcrxcux ,vonyvimfv.xxvfnusafg
gnn vafvmygsuvusmuvbcntnux.vbpxm.ycxvmf vkcxmw.vusxvisco.mpa.vndvznoq
Onyvenyp vuxmcv nefvusxvbpmosny.x.,vmf vnfvusxv.bnuvesxcxvpmygsuxc
sm.vism.x vusxvgpnntvdcntvusxvdmixvndvgcaxdvmf vmbmuso,vmf vesxcxvfxe
gxfxcmuanf.vmcxvkxafgvx yimux vafvusxvsa.uncovndvusxvbm.uvmf vafvusx
bnpa.sx vtmffxc.vndvusxvsagsxcvipm..x.,vmv.isnnp,vea x,vfnkpxvmf 
xpxrmuafg,vonyvenyp vxcxiuvsny.x.vdncvemapafgvmf vdncvusxvkpaf venc.sab
ndvmfvyfwfnefvGn qvMf vA,vesntvonyv xxtvusxvsxm vmf vdcnfuvndvmusxa.t,
onyvea.sx vkycfx vmuvusxv.umwx,vmf vfnevenyp vumwxvybnfvuso.xpdvesmu
onycvcxpaganfv xxt.vmfvyfbmc nfmkpxvicatx,vusmuvndv.xf afgvtov.nyp
yfbcxbmcx vkxdncxvau.vTmwxcq”

“Tmwxc!”,v.fxxcx vKmtx,v“Tmwxc,vUsnyvsm.uv xfax vusxvxja.uxfixvndvusx
Ucafauoq”

“.yisv xfamp,”vkxgmfvTmcpnex,vyf a.uyckx vkovusxvmiiy.muanf,v“a.vfnu
afinf.a.uxfuveausvusxvkxpaxdvafvusxvxja.uxfixvndvmv.ybcxtxvafuxppxiuymp
dncixvndvesaisvtov.nypva.vbmcuqvUsovtaf va.vunnvfmccnevunvintbcxsxf 
usxvatbxc.nfmpvmf vntfa.iaxfuvafuxppxiuvusmuvcypx.vkovyf.excrafgvpme.q
Ipafgafgvunvusxv a.gy.uafgvkxpaxdvndvmvcx.yccxiuanfvndvusxvkn o,vony
kycovauveausvbntbvmf vpmtxfumuanf;vem.uxvnrxcvauvonycvuxmc.,vmf v cxmt
ndvau.vcxafsmkaumuanfvm.vusxvuxtbpxvndvusxv.nypqvNyuvybnfvusxxqvUsx
uxfycxvndvusovdmausva.vtn.uvbcximcany.qvYf xcvusxv mcwveafg.vndv xmus,
fnygsuvkyuvusxvpnfgafgvdncvxuxcfmpvcx.uveappvbxcrm xvusxx,vpawxvau
sm.vbxcrm x vmf vxrxcveappvbxcrm xvmppvtmffxcvndvtxf,vesxusxcveausvnc
eausnyuvicxx vncvkxpaxdqvKyuv.yisvpnfgafgvinfumaf.vfnvm..ycmfixvndvau.
muumaftxfu,vkyuva.vnfpovusxvcxinfiapxtxfuvndvusxv.nypvunvau.vintafg
ismfgxvndvxja.uxfixveausnyuvusxvucmttxp.vndvusxvdpx.sqvMf vusa.,vA
uxppvusxx,vkpaf vmbn.upxvndvmvencf-nyuvicxx ,vusa.vencp va.vgnrxcfx 
kovmvdncixvusmuvencwxusvxrxcvunemc vbxcdxiuanf;vusxvbxcdxiuanfvndvusx
tmuxcampva.vafvkxmyuo;vndvusxv.bacauymp,vafvea. ntqvMf vknusvtmuuxc
mf v.bacauvmcxvxuxcfmpqvAttncumpauova.vfnuvmv cxmtvkyuvmv xtnf.ucmkpx
dmiuqv nvfnuvusxvemuxc.vndvusxv.ucxmtvkcxmwvafv.aprxcv.bcmo,vncvkxintx
taccnc.vdncvusxvdmixvndvfmuycx,vnc,vkxafgvpadux vkovusxv.yf,vdnctvusx
ipny .vesn.xvgpncany.vinpnc.vdpmtxvmf vdm xvmuvueapagsu?v nvfnuvxrxf
usxv yppvknyp xc.vmuvpxfgusvbcx.xfuvgpm..ovdmix.,vnc,vicytkpafg,vdnct
usxvbne xcx v.napvnfvesaisvdpnyca.sx.vmf ,vmox,va.vbmcuvnd,vusxveap 
dpnexc.?v nvfnuvusxvkcappamfuv.umc.vca.xvdcntvusxvfxkypmvusmuv.ucxe.
usxvdpnncvndvsxmrxf;vusy.v.ucyggpafgvuscnygsvmvusny.mf vismfgx.vunemc 
a xmpvkxmyuovafvdnct,vfxrxcvpn.afgvnfxvmuntvndv.yk.umfix?vMf vfne
esmuvndvusxvtaf vndvtmf?vAuvgcne.veausvoxmc.vmf vmuumaf.vau.vyutn.u
bxcdxiuanfvm.vusxvkn apovdncix.vdmapqvUsxfvintx.vusxv a.afuxgcmuanf
ndvusxvkn ovdncvfxevdnct.vm.vusxvmgx.vcnppqvAdvusxvtmuxcampvimffnuvkx
pn.u,vsnevimfvusxv.bacau,vusxvxgnvusmuvwfne.,vmf va.vm.v.ybxcancvun
usxvipmovm.vusxvparafgvdmixvndventmfva.vunvusxvipn vyf xcvdnnu?vAu
ty.uvinfuafyxvyf xcvusxvdncixvusmuvcma.x vau,vmf vafvau.vzy.uvpafx
ndvm.bacmuanfqvAuva.vmgmaf.uvusxvfmuycxvndvmppvusafg.,vtmuxcampvmf 
.bacauymp,vusmuvusxvtaf veausvau.vmiiytypmux vwfnepx gxvdcntvoxmc.vnd
padxv.snyp vbm..vafunvnkparanfq”

Usxvxpnhyxfixvndvusxvbnxuvafvusxv xparxcovndvsa.v.xctnfvndvusxv.nypvsm 
.uappx vusxvrnpykpxvKmtxqvTmcpnexvmbbxmcx ,vdncvusxvtntxfu,vafvKmtx’.
taf vm.vmvtmcuocvndvbxc.xiyuanfqvSxvinyp vsmrxvisxex vusxvmiiy.muanf
mf v.emppnex vauvadvsxvsm vsm vauqvAfvusxvucmf.bncuvndvusx.xvdcaxf po
dxxpafg.vsxvdxpuvuxtbux vunv.sxmusvsa.v.enc ,vkyuvmuvusmuvtntxfuvusx
.nyf .vndvdnnu.uxb.vmuucmiux vusxacvmuuxfuanf,vmf vusxovkximtxvafuxfu
my aunc.qvPnevrnaix.vcxmisx vusxacvxmc.,vmf vusxvfna.xvicxmux vkovusx
.uytkpafgvtnrxtxfu.vndvtmfovbxc.nf.vafvusxv mcwfx..vimtxveausv.sniwafg
 a.uafiufx..qvKmtxv.unn vfxmcx.uvusxvdnp afgv nnc.vndvusxvismfucoq

“Ipn.xvusxt,”vesa.bxcx vTmcpnex,vbnafuafgq

Kmtxvuycfx vafvaf.umfuvcx.bnf.x,vmf vby.sx vunvusxvfmccnev nnc.,
knpuafgvusxtqvKyuviaciypmcvnbxfafg.vexcxvafvusxacvdcnfu.,vmf v.xxafg
usa.,vTmcpnexvsm.uapovxjuafgya.sx vusxvkycfafgvimf px.qvUsxvrnaix.vimtx
fxmcxc,vmf vusxvdnnu.uxb.vfnev.nyf x vafvusxvma.px.q

“Auvimffnuvkxvusxvemuistxf,vdncvusxovmcxvtmfoq”

“Mf vkxmcvfnvpmfuxcf.q”

“Auvtmovkxvmvkmf vndvusaxrx.q”

“ a vonyvfnuvkmcvusxvxfucmfixv nnc?”

“Fn,vAv a vfnuvxrxfvipn.xvauq”

“Sy.s!”vtyctycx vKmtx,v“mf v.xx----”

Mvdmafuvpagsuvdpmcx vybvafvnfxvndvusxvma.px.,vmf vusxfvmfnusxcvmf 
mfnusxcqvXmisvaficxm.x vafvrnpytxvndvdpmtxvyfuapv.xrxcmpvuncisx.vexcx
kpmlafgvsxcxvmf vusxcxvafvusxvkn ovndvusxvisycisqvUsxovexcxvkncfxvmpndu
nrxcvtnrafgvsxm .,vmf vusxvuenvtxfvafvusxvismfucov.mevrappmafny.vdmix.
mf vcmggx vdnct.qvAuvem.vmv.incxvndvusxvtn.uv x.bxcmuxvusaxrx.vndvusx
.ucmau.,vesn,vsmrafgvdnyf vusxvpnn.xpovipn.x v nncvndvusxvisycisvnbxfx 
ea xvkovmvdycany.vkpm.uvndvusxv.unct,vsm vxfuxcx vpawxvemuxcvafunvusx
kcnwxfvsnp vndvmvrx..xpqvUsxvdaxcixv x.acxvdncvbpyf xcvsm vcnkkx vusxt
ndvimyuanf,vmf vusxovsm vkxintxvxtknp xfx vkovusxacvfytkxc.qvBn..akpo
usxovsm vfnuvusnygsuvusmuvusxvxjuxcancvmbbxmcmfixvndvusxvpagsux visycis
enyp vimy.xvmpmct,vmf vauva.vhyx.uanfmkpxvesxusxcv.yisvusnygsuvenyp 
smrxv.umox vusxtqvUsxfvkxgmfvmv.ixfxvndv.bnpamuanfvesais,vafv.bpxf nc
ndv.xuuafgvmf vdaxcixfx..vndvau.vtnrafgvdagycx.,vkxggmc.v x.icabuanfq

.xp nt,vadvxrxc,vsm vmvsny.xvndvenc.sabvkpmlx veausvpawxvappytafmuanfq
Kpmiwv.tnwxvmcn.xvdcntvusxvemrxcafgvuncisx.,vkyuvauvem.vpn.uvafvusx
gcxmuv.bmixvafuxcrxfafgvkxuexxfvusxv.bnu.vesxcxvauvunnwvdpagsuvmf vusx
gcnafx vixapafg,v.nvusmuvfnusafgvnk.iycx vusxvbmafux veaf ne.,vusx
dpmtknomfuvucmixcovmknrxvusxt,vmf vusxvgcxmuvmcisvnrxcvusxvismfixp
mf vusxvmpumc,vxjixbuvusxv.sm ne.vuscnefvkovafuxcixbuafgvinpytf.qvUsx
kcappamfuvinpncx vdmix.vndvusxv.mafu.vybnfvusxvpmfixuveaf ne.vmbbxmcx 
unvpnnwv nefvafvenf xcvybnfvusxvrmf mp.,vesn.xvgpmfix.vafvuycfv acxiux 
ybemc vunvusx.xvcne.vndvin.upovbmfx.vexcxvusxvxjucxtxvndvinrxuny.fx..q
Auvem.vnfpovusxvaf.yctnyfumkpxv.bmixvusmuvwxbuvusx.xvbaiuycx v.mafu.
afranpmuxqvKyuvusxcxvexcxvnusxcvucxm.ycx.vesaisvsxp vfnvbn.auanf.vnd
.mdxuovmgmaf.uvyfsnpovmf vyfpmedypvnf.pmygsu,vmf vauvem.vunemc vusxt
usmuvusxvcnkkxc.vfnev acxiux vmuuxfuanfqvUsxovkxgmfv.ucabbafgvusx
gapuvucmbbafg.vdcntvusxvmpumcvmf vusxvbypbau,vuxmcafgv nefvusxvbycbpx
umbx.ucovkxdncxvusxv.mica.uco,vgmusxcafgvybvusxvismpaix.,vknnw.vmf 
rx.utxfu.,vmf vxrxfvecxfisafgvusxvkcm..vkmpy.uxc.vdcntvusxveaf afg
cnn v.umacvunvusxvisnacqvAuvtmovsmrxvkxxfvusxacvafuxf.xvmiuanfvncvusx
medypfx..vndvusxv.yccnyf afg.,vusmuvipn.x vmppvpab.vdcntvusxvtntxfu
usmu,veausvxox.vdxm.uafgvnfvusxv.bpxf nc.vndvusxvisycis,vusxovkxgmf
au.v x.xicmuanfqvSnexrxcvusmuvtmovsmrxvkxxf,vfnv.nyf vndvsytmfvrnaix
miintbmfax vusxvdycany.vencwafg.vndvusxvcnkkxc.qv.uapp,v.apxfixv a 
fnuvbcxrmapqvUsxcxvexcxvkpne.vndv.npa v.yk.umfix.vungxusxc,vcm.bafgvnd
txump.,vuxmcafg.vndvipnus,vmf vusxacvxisnx.vbcnpnfgx vkovmvinf.ucyiuanf
ndv ntx,vempp.vmf vgmppxcax.vimpiypmux vunvwxxbvxrxcov.nyf vmparxq

Unemc vusxvipn.x vismfuco,vuenvcnkkxc.vmuvpxfgusvuycfx qvNfxvuscy.uvsa.
uncisvuscnygsvmviaciypmcveaf nevndvusxv nnc,vmf vusxvuenvtxfveausaf
.yfwvnfvusxvtmckpxvdpnncvipn.xvkovusxvuntkvndvusxvdnyf xcqvUsxvxox.
ndvusxvusaxdv.snyp vsmrxvdnppnex vusxvuncis,vkyuvmuvusmuvtntxfuvmvico
muucmiux vsa.vmuuxfuanf,vmf vsxv.mevusxvumbx.ucovsmfgafgvmgmaf.uvusx
emppvkxsaf vusxvbypbauvecmbbx vafvdaxcixvdpmtx.q

Auvsm vkxxfvwaf px vkovusxvimcxpx..vsmf pafgvndvnfxvndvusxvuncisx.,vmf 
ka vdmacvunv.ybbpxtxfuvusxvfagsu’.vencwveausvunumpv x.ucyiuanfqvEsapx
usmuv.agsuvdac.uv cxevmuuxfuanf,vmfnusxcv.agsuvmf vusxv.nyf vndv.scapp
rnaix.vattx amuxpovimy.x v arxc.anfqvFxevdagycx.vsm v.y  xfpovmbbxmcx 
muvusxvea xvxfucmfix.vunvusxvkn ovndvusxvisycis,vmf vmvfxevdxmcvcmf
pawxveap dacxvuscnygsvusxv.imuuxcx vtnkvndvusaxrx.qvUsxcxvem.vfnvnyupxu
xjixbuvesxcxvusxvmpmctx vmf vsm.uapovgmusxcx vemuistxfvexcxv.umf afgq
Usxvkpmlafgvumbx.ucovdncix vusxvcnkkxc.vdncemc qvFnfxvndvusxacv.bnap.
excxv cnbbx qvSmrafgvgcnybx vungxusxcvdncvmfvaf.umfu,vusxovcy.sx 
cxiwpx..povunemc vusxvxfucmfix.vsxp vkovusxvemuistxf,vesnvinyp vfnu
cxbxpvusxvnf.pmygsuqvXjixbuafgvuscxxvesnv.uytkpx vmf vdxpp,vusxvusaxrx.
bnycx vdncusvafunvusxv.ucxxuq

Tmcpnexvem.vdac.uvybnfvsa.vdxxuvmduxcvusxveaus cmempvndvusxv.xmcisafg
uncisqvSxv.mevusxvkpmlafgvumbx.ucovmf vusxvtm vcy.svndvusxvincfxcx 
cnkkxc.qvSxvyfknpux vusxv nnc,vdpyfgvauvnbxfvmf veausnyuvmvgpmfix
kxsaf vsat,vcmfv nefvusxvma.pxvmf vxfuxcx vusxvismfixpqvUsxvpagsu
ma x vsatvafvsa.vcmba v.ycrxoqvSxvcxingfalx vusxvuntkvkovesaisvsxvsm 
m.ixf x ,vmf ,vpaduafgvusxv.pmk,vsxvicmepx vyf xcvafunvusxvbm..mgxvtm x
dncvusxvwafgqvAfvusxvncmunco,vmvdxevtntxfu.vpmuxc,vsxv.xmcisx vsa.
ipnusx.vfxcrny.povdncvusxv.uappvyfcxm vtx..mgxvdcntvMffxqvAuvem.vfnu
unvkxvdnyf ,vmf vusxvtxxuafgvndvusxvfagsuvsm vcx.ypux vafvfnygsuvkyu
bxcbpxjauovmf vta.dncuyfxq

Auvem.vfnuvyfuapvTmcpnexvsm vto.uxcany.pov a.mbbxmcx ,vusmuvKmtx
gmusxcx vsat.xpdvdncvmiuanfqvSxvusnygsuvndvfnvismfixvdncvx.imbxvxjixbu
uscnygsvusxvemovsxvsm vxfuxcx qvSxvmuuxtbux vau,vmf ,vsmrafgvucmrxc.x 
eausvxjbx auanfvusxvma.px.vmf vfmcusxjvndvusxvisycisvfnevkcappamfupo
pagsux vkovusxvdpmtx.vndvusxvkycfafgvumbx.ucovmf vau.v.ybbncu.,vsxvcmf
afunvusxvmct.vndvusxvemuistmfvafvusxvbncuainvunvesaisvusxvpmuuxcvsm 
eaus cmefqvSa.vbcnux.umuanf.vexcxvndvfnvmrmapqvAfvrmafvsxvbpxm x vusmu
sxvsm vzy.uvintxvybvdcntvusxv.a xempwqvUscxxvnddaixc.vsm v.xxfvsat
a..yxvdcntvusxvisycisvxfucmfixqvM.vnfxvndvusxvusaxrx.vsxvem.vumwxfvafun
iy.un oq




GYAPUOvNFvGXFXCMPvBCAFIABPX.q

vvvv_Usx.xvpnnw.vndvusafxvimfvsmckncvfnygsuvkyuv xmus!_
vvvv_Av.xxvtovucmgx ovecauuxfvafvusovkcneq_
vvvv_Oxuv.umo,vmesapxvdnckxmcvusovkpnn ovsmf q_

vvvv--_X emc vAA,vr,v5q_

vvvv_Fnv nykuvusxvtyc xcny.vwfadxvem.v yppvmf vkpyfu,_
vvvv_Uappvauvem.vesxuux vnfvusov.unfx-smc vsxmcu,_
vvvv_Unvcxrxpvafvusxvxfucmap.vndvtovpmtk.q_

vvvv--_WafgvCaismc vAAA,var,v4q_


Auvinyp vkxv.umux vafvnfxv.xfuxfixvusmuvCaismc vKmtxvem.vucax vmuvusx
Np vKmapxovdncvdxpnfo,vdnyf vgyapuo,vmf vsyfgvmuvUokycf;vkyuvesmu
baiuycx.venyp vusmuvbcx.xfuvndvusxvucmgx o?vUsxv.x..anf-smppvndvusxvnp 
inycuvmf vusxv.ucmggpafgvcnm vunvUokycfvenyp vkxvpx..vunvusxvtaf vusmf
usxv.yk.umfixvndvusxvrmgyx.uv cxmt;vmf vsx,vesnvxf xmrncx vunvinrxc
eausvxuxcfmpvafdmtovnycvxp x.uvmf vgcxmux.uvtm.uxcvndvusxv cmtm,venyp 
.uxmpvmemovpawxvmvusaxdvafvusxvfagsu,vyffnuaix vmf v.nnfvdncgnuuxfqvAu
a.vfnuvtovbycbn.xvunvipn.xvusxvismbuxcvndvusxvta.icxmfu’.vpadxvafv.n
.yttmcovmvtmffxcq

Esapxvdcntvusxveaf nevndvusxvncmunco,vTmcpnexvsm v.xxfvusxvisycis
inf.ytx vunvm.sx.vfnvfxe.vndvusxvmccx.uvmf vatbxf afgvucampvndvKmtx
sm vcxmisx vsa.vxmc.qvAuvem.v ycafgvusxvbcngcx..vndvusxvinfdpmgcmuanf
usmuvsxvsm vunp vUmtencusvndvusxv.umcupafgvxrxfu.vndvusxvfagsu,vmf vusx
cxiaumpvsm vgcxmupov a.uyckx vusxvpmeoxcqvSxv.mevafvusxvdmiuvndvKmtx’.
cxingfauanfvndvsa.vdcaxf ,vmvtxfmixvmgmaf.uvusxv.mdxuovndvTmcpnex,vdnc
usxvbcoafgvKmtxvtagsuvxf xmrncvunvyfcmrxpvusxvto.uxcovinfixcfafgvusx
kycampvndvusxv cmtmua.uvmf vsa.vpmuxcvmbbxmcmfixvafvkn apovdnctqvUsa.
mbbcxsxf.anf,vsnexrxc,vem.v.nnfvhyaxux qvUmtencusvpxmcfx vndvKmtx’.
mccx.u,vmf vusxfvusmuvsxvem.vmknyuvunvkxvkcnygsuvunvucampq

Mppvusa.vafdnctmuanfvem.v.x ypny.povwxbuvdcntvTmcpnex,vdncvUmtencus
wfxevfnuvesmuvTmcpnexvtagsuv nvunv.mrxvusxvmiiy.x ,vfnuvusmuvsa.vsmucx 
sm vmkmux ,vkyuvsxvtagsuvsmrxv.icybpx.vmgmaf.uvnfxvkxafgvsyfgvdncvmf
nddxf.xvndvesaisvnfxvem.vaffnixfuqvAfvusxvtaf vndvusxvpmeoxc,vKmtx
 x.xcrx vusxv.xrxcx.uvbyfa.stxfuvwfnefvafvusxvpmevdncvsa.vdmp.xvismcgx.
mgmaf.uvusxv cmtmua.uqvTmcpnexvinyp v nvfnusafgvxjixbuveausvbxcapvun
sa.vnefv.mdxuoqvSxvinyp v.exmcvusmuvKmtxvem.vfnuvafvusxvisycisvdnc
mfovyfpmedypvbycbn.x,vkyuvunvmbbxmcvm.vmveaufx..venyp vkxvunv xparxc
sa.vnefvkn ovafunvusxvsmf .vndvusxvxjxiyuanfxcqvUsxv a.ipn.ycxvem.,
usxcxdncx,v xpmox vyfuapv.ntxvuatxvmduxcvusxvdmumpv movndv xixtkxcv6us,
1594q

Auvem.vmuvnfxvndvusxv.x..anf.vndvusxvNp vKmapxo,v ycafgvmvuatxvesxf
sytmfvpadxvem.vmuvusxvpnex.uvx.uatmuxvauvxrxcvcxmisx vafvXfgpmf ,vusmu
Caismc vKmtxvem.vkcnygsuvunvucampvdncvusxvkycgpmcovndvusxvisycisvndv.uq
NpmrxqvBxfunvmf vKm po,vuenvndvusxvmccx.ux vcnkkxc.,vsm vbcxix x vsat
afvusxv niw,vmf vsmrafgvkxxfvdnyf vgyapuovndvusxv.mtxvicatxvndvesais
sxvem.vmiiy.x ,vsm vcxixarx vusxv xmusv.xfuxfixqvAfvmfuaiabmuanfvndvusx
intafgvndvusxvKcnefa.u,vusxvgmppxcovesaisvbcnzxiux vdcntvnfxv.a xvnd
usxv.hymcxvsmpp,vem.vdappx qvUsxvpnexcvkxfisx.vexcxvmp.nvniiybax ,vmf 
sxcxvmf vusxcxvmta vusxvdnct.vndvusxvnc afmcovpnnwxc.-nf,vinyp vkxv.xxf
gcmo-inmux vBycaumf.qvUsxacvfytkxc.vxjiaux vinttxfu,vmf vauvkxgmfvun
kxvesa.bxcx vusmuvusxvtmfvunvkxvucax vem.vnfxvndvusxv a..xfuxc.qv.ntx
ndvusxtvexcxvusxcxvunvux.uadovunvsa.vbcxrany.vgnn vismcmiuxc,vnusxc.
excxvusxcxvdcntviycan.auoqvKmtxvem.vexppvwfnefvmtnfgvusxvinfgcxgmuanf.
dcntvusxvUcakypmuanfvndvUnexcvSappvmf vusxvPatxvSny.x,vfnuvbmcuaiypmcpo
m.vmv.safafgvxjmtbpxvndv xrnuanf,vkyuvm.vmvuacxpx..vencwxcvdncvusxac
afuxcx.u.qvAuvem.vmvgcmrxvhyx.uanfvesxusxcvusxvdacxvndvbxc.xiyuanf
usmuvkycfx veausafvsatvem.vwxbuvmparxvkoveap vmf vxjucmrmgmfuvfnuanf.
ndvesmuvtmf’.v yuax.vexcxvunvGn ,vncvesxusxcvsxvem.v.atbpovmvunnpvaf
usxvsmf .vndv.ntxv.ucnfgvmf vyf.icybypny.vtmfvesnvsm vbcarmuxvecnfg.
unvcx cx..qvSxvem.vkpaf vmf vxtnuanfmpvxfnygsvdncvmvdmfmuai,vkyuvesapx
sxvxjbxf x vusa.vdcxflovybnfvmbn.umux.vmf vfnf-nk.xcrxc.vafvusxvpnexc
cmfw.vndvpadx,vsa.v.tmppvinycmgxvmbbxmcx vyfxhympvdncvmfvmuumiwvybnf
usn.xvimbmkpxvndv xdxf.xqv.n,vesxfvusxvmuumiwvybnfvTmcpnexvem.vwfnef,
usxvkxpaxdvmcn.xvusmuvsxvem.vkxafgvbcntbux vmf vybsxp vkov.ntxvnfx
sagsvafvmyusncauov[fnuxv38]qvUsxvucyusvndvusxvtmuuxcvimfvfxrxcvkx
wfnefqvSnexrxc,vKmtxvinf yiux vsat.xpdvybnfvsa.vucampvpawxvnfxvesnvsm 
dcaxf .vbnexcdypvxfnygsvunvsnp vusxvesxxp.vndvusxvbcn.xiyuanfqvUsa.
inf yiuvtmovsmrxvmca.xfvdcntvsa.vaffnixfixvndvusxvismcgxvnfvesaisvsx
em.vucax q

Eausvdactv.uxb.vsxvicn..x vusxvyfinrxcx vFxegmuxvomc vdcntvsa.
uxtbncmcovixpp,vmf vm.vsxvxfuxcx vusxvNp vKmapxoveausvpawxvtnrxtxfu
usxvicne vfnuaix veausvtyctycx vmbbcnrmpvsa.vmacvndvmvtmcuocqvKnp fx..
ndv xtxmfncva.vmpemo.vusxv.ykzxiuvndvm tacmuanfveausvusxvbxnbpx;vkyu,
mgmaf,vmvta.xcmkpxvxjuxcancvtmovicxmuxvmvinyfuxcvemrxvndvdxxpafgqv.nvau
em.vafvusa.vim.xqvM.v.nnfvm.vKmtxvcxmisx vusxv niw,vmf veausvdmixvdcnt
usxvmy axfix,v a.bpmox vnfpovsa.vcmggx vgmctxfu.vmf vyfwxtbuvpniw.vusx
xfusy.am.tvrmfa.sx qvSxvfnevbcx.xfux vmvenxdypvmbbxmcmfixqvSxvem.v.uapp
muuacx vafvusxv a.imc x vgmctxfu.vesaisvsxvsm v nffx vnfvusxvfagsuvnd
usxv.unct,vmf vusxcxvem.vfnusafgvunv a.uafgya.svsatvdcntvmfvnc afmco
rmgmknf qvSa.veadxvsm vkcnygsuvsa.viy.untmcov.ucxxuv.yau--usxvgcmovgmck
ndvusxvBycaumf--unvusxvzmap,vkyuvusxvuycfwxovsm vcnygspovnc xcx vsxc
memoveausvau,vxjbcx..afgvsat.xpdvm.vkxafgvmrxc.xvunvmppneafgvzmapvkac .
unvatbn.xveausvdafxvdxmusxc.vnfvusxvinycuvncvusxvzycoqvUsy.vKmtxvem.vnf
mvdnnuafgveausvusxvcyddamf.vesnvsm vbcxix x vsatvmuvusxvkmcvnfvmvpawx
ismcgxq

Nfxvemcfafgvsm vkxxfvatbcx..x vybnfvsatvkxdncxvxfuxcafgvusxvsmpp,vko
usxvdxpnf.vafvusxvm znafafgvixpp.,vesnvsm v.ma :

“Mvgap x v.enc ,veausvbnafuvybemc ,va.v.y.bxf x vmgmaf.uvusx
icat.nf-bm  x vemppvkxsaf vusxvzy gxqvOnyveappv.xxvauvesxfvonyvgnvaf,
kyuvtaf vonyvusa.:vUycfvonycvxox.vdcntvusxv.enc vm.v.nnfvm.vusxvzy gx
kxgaf.vsa.vismcgx,vmf vwxxbvdcntvgmlafgvybnfvauvyfuapvusxvzycovcxuycf.
eausvau.vrxc aiuq”

“Esov.n?”vKmtxvsm vm.wx q

“Auva.vusxv.enc vndvzy.uaix,vmf vauveappvdmppvybnfvonyqvExvexcxvdnyf 
gyapuoqvExvpnnwx vybnfvusxv.enc q”

Usxvzmapxcvsm vnrxcsxmc vusa.vinfrxc.muanfvmf v.ma veausvmfvxjbcx..arx
.tapx:v“Usxvcxinc .v.snevusmuv99vnyuvndv100vpnnwvybnfvusxv.enc vmf vusx
syf cx usvtmfvfxrxcvcxuycf.vsxcxvunvuxppvesxusxcvsxvpnnwx vybnfvauvnc
fnuqvAuvty.uvkxvucyxq”

Usa.v.ybxc.uauanfvndvusxvzmap.vsm v.nvatbcx..x vKmtx,vusmuvusxv.enc 
em.vusxvdac.uvusafgvsxvfnuaix vm.vsxvdmix vusxvzy gx’.vkxfis,vusx
zyco-knjvmf vusxvkmcqvUsxcxvauvsyfgvyf xcvusxv.hymcxvimfnbovmf vmgmaf.u
usxvicat.nfv cmbxcovnfvusxvemppqvAuvem.vmvtncxv.ucawafgvnkzxiuvunvKmtx
usmfvusxvzy gxvsat.xpdqvSxv xuxctafx vunvwxxbvsa.vxox.vdajx vnfvusx
kmcvmf vzycov ycafgvsa.vnc xmpqvTncxnrxc,vusxvzy gx’.vdmixvem.vfnu
muucmiuarx;vauvem.v.nvyfxtnuanfmp,vmf vsa.vpab.v.xxtx vyfcxm ovunvtnrx
eausvmfovenc .vncvunfx.vxjixbuvusn.xvm.vsmc.svm.vusxvzyco’.vrxc aiuvnd
“gyapuoq”

Kmtx’.vinyf.xp,vUsntm.vXpanu,vem.veausafvusxvkmcqvSxvem.vm
inf.xhyxfuampvkmcca.uxcveausvpnfgvdpneafgvcnkxvmf vbne xcx vbxcaeagq
Sxvinf x.ixf x vunvcxingfalxvusxvbca.nfxc,vmf vunvinfdxcveausvsatqvM
pny vkyllvndvinfrxc.muanfvdappx vusxvcnnt,v.uappx vmuvafuxcrmp.vkovusx
kmapadd,vesnvpnnwx vm.v cax vmf v.scarxpx vm.vusnygsvsxvsm vkxxfviyu
 nefvmparxvdcntvusxvUokycfvucxxvmduxcvsmrafgvsyfgvusxcxvafvsnuveaf .
dncv.xrxcmpvexxw.qvSxvem.vusxvnfpovnkzxiuvafvusxvcnntvusmuvimy.x vKmtx
unv.tapxq

Usxv movnyu.a xvem.vsnu,vmf vsxcxvusxvsxmuvem.vaficxm.x vkovusx
cx.bacmuanfvndvusxvgcxmuvicne ,vmf vusxv.yf.safxvbnycafgvuscnygsvusx
uscxxveaf ne.vpnnwafgvunemc vusxvbca.nfqvSnexrxc,vusxv afgovempp.vnd
usxvinycu-cnntvmbbxmcx vm.vinp vm.vusxvdmixvndvusxvzy gxqvUsxovsm 
kxxfvafvbn.auanfvunvsxmcvunnvtmfovinfryp.arxvicax.,vdnppneafgvusx
mffnyfixtxfu.vndvrxc aiu.,vunvgcnevemctvyf xcvmfoviaciyt.umfix.q

Usxvipxcwvcxm vusxvaf aiutxfuvafv.nfncny.vrnaixqvFnfxvndvauvem.
yf xc.unn vkovusxvmy axfix;vdncvusxvMfgpn-.mjnfvenc .vexcxv.n
usncnygspov.smwxfvybveausvenc .vafvPmevDcxfisvmf vbscm.x.vafvPmuaf
usmuvauv.xxtx vpawxvmvcxiaumpvxfuacxpovafvmvdncxagfvpmfgymgxqvFnfxvnd
usxvpmeoxc.vafuxcbcxux vauvm.vcxm ,vdncvusxvipxcw’.vbcnfyfiamuanfvem.
rappmafny.;vmf vm.vdncvKmtx,vsxvpnnwx v.uyba povmuvusxvipxcwvyfuapvsx
dafa.sx ,vmf vusxvbpxmvndvfnuvgyapuovem.vxfuxcx q

“Onyvtagsuvsmrxv.unn vtyux,”v.ma vusxvkmcca.uxcvmduxcemc .,v“kyuvony
enyp vsmrxvkxxfvumwxfvunvusxvcmiwvncvusxvusytk.icxe.q”

UsxvmuuncfxovdncvusxvIcnefvtm xvfnvnbxfafgv.umuxtxfuvunvusxvzycoqvUatx
em.vunnvbcxiany.vdncvusmu;vdncvFxegmuxvem.vcyffafgvnrxcveausvusxv.iyt
ndvsytmfvpadx,vmppvndvesaisvty.uvdaf vxrmbncmuanfvuscnygsvusa.vgpnnto
smppq

Usxvemuistmfvesnvsm vtm xvusxvmccx.uv.umux vusmuvusxvbca.nfxcvsm vcyf
afunvsa.vmct.vkxdncxvusxvdac.uvipny vndv.tnwxvsm vbnycx vdcntvusx
isycisqvSxv(usxveaufx..)vem.vusxfv.umf afgvnfvusxvx gxvndvusxvbncuain,
mf vem.vbn.auarxvusmuvusxvbca.nfxcvsm vintxvdcntvusxvisycisqvUsxcx
inyp vkxvfnvta.umwxvmknyuvau,vdncvsxvem.vinygsafgvm.vusnygsv.uadpx 
eausvusxv.tnwxqvSxvsm vfnusafgvafvsa.vsmf .vncvmct.,vmf vnfvdaf afg
usmuvsxvem.vafviy.un o,vsxvattx amuxpovbcnux.ux vusmuvsxvsm vintxvyb
eausvusxvicne vdcntvusxv.ucxxuqvUsx.xvbcnux.umuanf.vsm vkxxfvpmygsx 
mu,vdncvnusxc.vsm v.xxfvsatqvUsxvnusxc.vexcxvimppx --uenvtncxvemuistxf,
mf vusxacvux.uatnfovem.vndvpawxvxddxiuqvUsxv xdxf.xvdmapx vunv.smwx
usxtvnfvicn..-xjmtafmuanf,vmf vusxfvmveaufx..vfmtx vBxfixvem.vkcnygsu
dcntvsa.vixppvafvusxvbca.nfqvSxvem.vnfxvndvusxvmccx.ux vcnkkxc.,--m
cmggx ,vinmupx..,vkmcxdnnux vknovndv.ajuxxfvoxmc.qvFnuvnfpovusx
ta.xcovndvsa.vnefvkcaxdvxja.uxfix,vkyuvndvusxvyfwfnefvpafxvndvesais
sxvem.vmv x.ixf xfu,vsm v.nvtnyp x vsa.vdmixvusmuvusxcxvem.vfnvpafx
fncvdxmuycxvndvauvkyuvesmuvem.v xkm.x vmf vxjbcx..arxvndvpneviyffafg
mf vraiany.fx..qvSa.vucampvsm vfnuvumwxfvbpmix,vkyuvkxafgvmiiy.x vmf 
infdafx vm.vnfxvndvusxvbmcuaiabmfu.vafvusxvicatx,vauvem.vafvacnf.vusmu
sxvxfuxcx vusxvNp vKmapxoqvSa.vux.uatnfovtagsuvkxvndvpauupxvexagsu,vkyu
auvsm vkxxfv xia x vunvbyuvauvafvdncvesmuvauvem.vencusqvSxvem.v.encf
mf vmduxcvbcntbuvmf.exc.vunvbcxpatafmcovhyx.uanf.,vsxv cadux vafunvm
fmccmuarxvndvusxvfagsu’.vencwqvIpxmcx vndvrxckamgxvmf vusxvimfuvndvusx
.ucmau.vmf vucmf.pmux vafunvtn xcfvXfgpa.s,vauvcxm :

“Usxvcmafvsm v carxfvtxvybnfvusxvbncuainvndv.uqvNpmrxqvAvpmovafvm
cxix..vfxmcvnfxvndvusxv nnc.,vmf vem.vm.pxxbvesxfvusxvinfrxc.muanf
ndvuenvtxfvmenwxvtxqvAvsxmc vusxtv.bxmwvndvxfuxcafgvusxvisycis,vmf 
daf afgvusxv nncvbmcuamppovnbxfx ,vAvdnppnex vusxtvafq”

“Unv.uxmpvusxvdac.uvusafgvonyvinyp vdaf ,vxs?”vafuxczxiux vusxvinyf.xp
Xpanuvdncvusxvbca.nfxcqvUsxveaufx..vpnnwx vdxmcpx..povmuvusxv.bxmwxc
mf v.ma :

“FxrxcqvAvenyp vfnvtncxv mcxv.uxmpvdcntvmvisycisvusmfvAvenyp vcnkvm
gcmrxvmuvfagsuqvAvem.viycany.vunvpxmcfvesmuvusxovexcxvgnafgvunv nq”

“Pxuvusxveaufx..vbcnixx veausnyuvafuxccybuanf,”v xtmf x vusxvbykpai
bcn.xiyuncqvMuvusa.vusxvknovinfuafyx :

“Av.mevusxtvbm..vafunvusxvpagsux vismfuco,vmf ,vkxafgvkmcxdnnux ,vA
cxmisx vusxvbpmixveausnyuvfna.xvmf vpnnwx vafqvUsmuvtmfvem.vusxcxq”vSx
bnafux vnfxvndvsa.vtmfmipx vsmf .vmuvKmtxqv“Usxvnusxcvtmfvem.vcxm afgvm
bmbxcqvSxvem.vkxsaf vusxvuntk,vipn.xvkovusxvpagsux vimf px.qvUsxov.ma 
fnusafgvdncvmvdxevtntxfu.,vmf vusxfvusxvbca.nfxcv cxevmv.enc vm.vusnygs
unvwappvusxvnusxcvtmfq”

“Esmu!”vxjipmatx vusxvbcn.xiyuncqvUsxvxjipmtmuanfvmcny.x vusxvzy gx
dcntvmvcxrxcovusmuvem.vtncxvbpxm.mfuvusmfvpa.uxfafgvunvusxvcmtkpafg
miinyfuvndvmveaufx..qvUsxveaufx..vcxbxmux :v“Usxvbca.nfxcv cxevsa.
.enc q”

“Esxcxvem.vusa.?”vm.wx vusxvzy gxq

“Afvusxvismfucovndvusxvisycisvndv.uqvNpmrxq”

“Ms,”v.ma vusxvzy gxv.uxcfpo;vdncvm.vmvsagsvisycistmfvsxvpnnwx 
yfdmrncmkpovybnfvusxv a..xfuxc.,vmf vfxrxcvpxuvmvintbpmafuvmgmaf.uvusxt
gcnev.umpxvdncvpmiwvndvafrx.uagmuanfqv“.xxvunvau,vTcqvMuuncfxo,vusmu
advusxvbca.nfxcvx.imbx.vusa.vucamp,vusmuvsxvkxvkcnygsuvsxcxvmgmafvdnc
 cmeafgvmvexmbnfvafvusxvisycisq”

“Exvnkzxiu,”v.ma vKmtx’.vinyf.xp,vca.afg,v“unvdycusxcvcxtmcw.vndvusa.
ismcmiuxcqvUsxovmcxvbcxzy aiampvunvusxvbca.nfxcqvUsxvzycov.snyp vfnuvkx
atbcx..x veausvusxva xmvusmuvtovipaxfuva.vgyapuovndvnusxcvicatx.qvSxva.
nfvucampvdncvusxvkycgpmcovndvusxvisycis,vfnuvdncvmfvmddcmovdncvesais
xjinttyfaimuanfvmf vusxvpn..vndvsa.vxmc.va.vusxvbxfmpuoqvAuva.vunnvtyis
usxvsmkauvndvzycax.vunvdaf vmvtmfvgyapuovybnfvusxvgxfxcmpvbcafiabpx
usmuvsxva.vmfvyfdauvtxtkxcvndv.niaxuo,vmf vusxcxdncxvmvdauv.ykzxiuvdnc
zy aiampvtyc xcq”

“Snp !”vusyf xcx vusxvzy gx,vsa.vxmc.vuafgpafgveausvusxvcxtmcw.,vmf 
fnuaiafgvsnevxrxcovesa.bxcvsm vkxxfv.uappx vkovusxvkmcca.uxc’.vknp 
.bxxisqv“Onycvafuxcx.uvafvonycvipaxfuva.vimccoafgvonyvkxonf vusxvpatau.
mppnex vsxcxvdncvmcgytxfuqv.auv nef,vncvonyveappvbcnrnwxvtncxvusmfvm
cxbcatmf qvPxuvusxveaufx..vbcnixx q”

Usxvkmcca.uxcvwfxevusxvcagncny.vismcmiuxcvndvusxvzy gx,vmf v.me
.ntxusafgvtncxvusmfvmv.xcxfxvzy aiampvxjbcx..anfvnfvsa.vbmpxvdmixq
Usxvkmcca.uxcvafuxcbcxux vauvm.vmvdafxvdncvsat.xpd,vadvsxvinfuafyx 
sa.vcxtmcw.,vmf vmuvusxvipn.xvndvusxvucampvmvismcgxvunvusxvzycovesais
enyp vkxvracuymppovmvinttmf vunvinfraiuqvCxmpalafgvusmuvsa.vdxcrncvsm 
imccax vsatvkxonf vusxvknyf .vndv a.icxuanf,vkyuvyfmkpxvunvdnctypmuxvmf
mbnpngovdncvcxtmcw.vesaisvsxvwfxevexcxvzy.uadamkpx,vsxvcx.xmux vsat.xpd
mta vusxvtyctyc.vndvusxvmy axfixqvUsx.xvtyctyc.vexcxvndvmbbcnrmpvndvusx
.umf vsxvsm vumwxfvmgmaf.uvusxvinycu,vmf vsxvdxpuvusmuvusxvzycnc.vexcx
eausvusxvtm..x.vdcntvesaisvusxovimtxq

“Expp,vesmuvem.v nfxvesxfvKmtxv cxevsa.v.enc ?”

“Usxvnusxcvtmfvpnnwx vdcagsuxfx ,vmf vesxfvKmtxv.ma v‘Avusnygsuvony
excxv xm ,’vsxv.umggxcx vm.vusnygsv.ucyiwqvUsxfvusxovumpwx q”

“Expp,vesmuv a vusxov.mo?”

“Avimf’uvcxtxtkxcvauvmppqvAuvem.vmknyuv.ntxvdmp.xvismcgx.qvUsxvbca.nfxc
.ma vusmuvsa.vfmtxvem.vCaismc vKmtx,vmf vsxvimppx vusxvnusxcvkovfmtx,
kyuvAvsmrxvdncgnuuxfvauqvSxvem.vmvsmf .ntxvtmfvafvkpmiwvipnmw,vmf vsx
.xxtx vtyisv a.ucx..x qvUsxvpagsu.v.snex vsa.vdmixvexpp,vesaisvem.
.tnnus,vmf vsxvsm vmvesauxvdxmusxcvafvsa.vimbqvAvusafwvusxvbca.nfxc
enyp vsmrxvwappx --”

“Fxrxcvtaf vesmuvonyvusnygsu,”vafuxcbn.x vXpanuq

“Onyvexcxvafuxccybux ,”v.ma vusxvzy gx,vafvusxvbmy.xvesaisvdnppnex ,
“kximy.xvonyvmcxvfnuvmppnex vunvxjbcx..vonycvnbafanf.qv.umuxvnfpovesmu
onyv a ,vesmuvnusxc.v a vmf vesmuvem.v.ma q”

“Avem.v.nvmdcma vusmuvusxvbca.nfxcvenyp vwappvusxvnusxcvtmf,”vinfuafyx 
usxveaufx..,v“usmuvAvicxbuvmemovnyuvndvusxvisycisqvAvemfux vunvdaf vm
emuistmf,vkyuvAv.mevfnvpagsu.qvAvcmfvmcnyf vusxvincfxcvndvusxvisycis,
mf vmuvusxvtnyusvndvusxvmppxovkytbx vafunvmvtmfqvMv.incxvndvnusxcvtxf
excxveausvsatvmf vusx.xvexcxvusxvusaxrx.,vkyuvAv a f’uvwfnevauqvAv.ma ,
‘Mvtmfva.vmknyuvunvkxvwappx vafvusa.visycisq’vMf vusxvnfxvesnvsxp 
tovmctvm.wx ,v‘Snev nvonyvwfne’?vMf vAv.ma ,v‘Avsmrxvzy.uvintxvnyuq’
Usxfv.ma vsx,v‘Mcxvusxv nnc.vnbxf?’v‘Ox.,’vAvmf.excx ;vmf vmuvusmuvsx
esa.bxcx vunvusn.xvfxmcx.u,v‘IntxvnfqvUsxvisycisva.vnbxfqvExvimfv.miw
auq’vMuvusmuvusxovsyccax vtxvmpnfg,vmf vexvbm..x vafunvusxvisycisveaus
tyisvfna.xqvUsxvtmfvunvesntvAvsm v.bnwxfv.uappvsxp vtovmctvmf vem.vmu
usxvsxm qvAvpnnwx vdncvusxvpagsu.vndvusxvismfuco,vkyuv.mevfnfx,vmf 
.ntxnfxv.ma ,v‘Usxvknovsm.vpax qvFnvnfxva.vsxcx,’vmf vusxovpxuvgnvto
mctqvMf vesxfvusxovsm vpagsux vuncisx.,vAvcmfvunemc vusxvismfucoqvUsx
 nnc.vexcxvipn.x vmf vfnvpagsu.v.snfxq”

“A.vusmuvmpp?”vm.wx vusxvzy gx,vmf vm.vusxveaufx..vtm xvfnvmf.exc,vsx
infuafyx :v“Usa.vux.uatnfovinccnkncmux.vusxvux.uatnfovndvusxvnddaixc.
usmuvusxvbca.nfxcvimtxvnyuvndvusxvisycisv x.bauxvsa.v.umuxtxfu.vun
usxtvunvusxvinfucmco,vkyuvauvmbbxmc.vusmuvsxvem.vafvfnvemovinffxiux 
eausvusxvkycgpmcoqvSxvem.vfnuvmfvm..niamuxvndvusxvuenvcnkkxc.vucax 
ox.uxc mo,vfncvndvusxvknoq”

Muvusa.vusxvknov.y  xfpovafhyacx :v“SmrxvBxfunvmf vKm povkxxfvucax ?”

“Ox.,vmf vdnyf vgyapuoqvEsmuvndvau?”

Usxvknovinppxiux vsa.vdmiypuax.qvUnv.xiycxvsa.vnefvpakxcuo,vusx
bca.nfxcvty.uvkxvinfraiux qv.nvdmcvsxvsm v.uyiwvunvusxvucyus,vkyu
sxvem.vcxm ovunvm  vdaiuanfqvUsxvuycfwxovndvsa.vemc vafvFxegmuxvsm 
afuatmux vusmuvadvsxvuycfx v.umux’.vxra xfixvsxvtagsuvbn..akpovgnvdcxxq
.nvauv.xxtx vusmuvusxvuenvnusxcvcnkkxc.vsm vkxxfvucax vmf vdnyf vgyapuo
eausnyuvsa.vmbbxmcmfixvm.vmveaufx..qvUsa.vsxvsm vfnuv.y.bxiux qv.n
usxcxvenyp vkxvfnvismfixvdncvsatvunvuxppvsnevsxvsm v.xxfvBxfunvpagsu
usxvdac.uvuncis,vmf vKm povuyggafgvmf vecxfisafgvmuvusxvncfmtxfu.
mknyuvusxvmpumcqvUsxovexcxvmpcxm ovyf xcv.xfuxfixvndv xmusqvAdvsxv.ma 
fnusafgvtncxvmknyuvusxvtmfvmuvusxvkmc,vusxvpmuuxcvenyp vkxvmihyauux ,
mf vusxvUokycfvcnbxvenyp vkxvmcnyf vsa.vnefvfxiwqvSm vsxvkxxfvndvusx
nc xcvndv mfgxcny.vcxm.nfxc.,vesnvinf.a xcvfnvmiuvecnfgv.nvpnfgvm.vusx
bcn.bxcauovndvusxv.umuxva.v.xiycx vncvm rmfix vkovau,vsxvtagsuvsmrx
dxpuvusmuvusxvbxczycx vux.uatnfovsxvem.vmknyuvunvgarxvem.vzy.uadamkpx
kximy.xvusxvbca.nfxcv.snyp vkxvsyfgvnfvusxvgxfxcmpvbcafiabpx.v.bnwxf
ndvkovsa.vmuuncfxoqvKyuvusa.vem.vfnuvsa.vafixfuarxqvAdvsxvexcxvunv.mo
mfousafg,vsxvty.uv.movauvhyaiwpo,vdncvmppvxox.vexcxvybnfvsat,vmf vmgmaf
fnvesa.bxc.vexcxvsxmc vafvusxvgcxmuvsmppqvSa.vpadxvxjbxcaxfix,vafvesais
sxvsm vsm vunvy.xvdmp.xsnn ,vkcmrm nvmf viyffafgvmgmaf.uvsytmfvdnx.
mf v.umcrmuanf,v.unn vsatvafvgnn v.uxm qvSxv.bnwx,vkyuvsa.vrnaixvem.
.imcixpovmknrxvmvesa.bxc,vmf vsxvwxbuvpnnwafgvmuvsa.vtmfmipx.:

“Usmuva.vfnuvmppq”

“Gnvnfvusxfq”

“Usxv nncvndvusxvismfucovnbxfx vkxdncxvmppvusxvuncisx.vexcxvpagsux ,
mf vusxvbca.nfxcvimtxvnyuq”

“Sxvpax.!”vxjipmatx vKmtxq

“Pxuvusxvbca.nfxcvcxtmafvhyaxu,”v.ma vusxvzy gxqv“Usxveaufx..vty.uvfnu
kxvafuata mux q”

Kmtxvsm vmca.xfveausvsa.vnefvxjipmtmuanfvmf vpnnwx vm.vusnygsvsx
afuxf x vzytbafgvdcntvusxv niwqvUsxvcxm ovux.uatnfovmf vinnpfx..vndvusx
bxczycafgveaufx..vsm v.umcupx vsat;vmf vsxvcxingfalx vsa.vnefvbxcapq
Usxvknovpnnwx vybemc vmuvusxvzy gx,vmf vusxfvsa.vxox.vdnppnex vmvfmccne
.ucabvndv.yfpagsuvunvusxveaf ne.vuscnygsvesaisvauvimtxqvUsxcxvem.vm
.ucxmwvndvkpyxv.wovra.akpx,vmf vdcntvauvusxvknovpxuvsa.vxox.vdmppvybnf
usxvtmfmipx.vmcnyf vsa.veca.u.qvUsxv a.ucx..x vpnnwvusmuvimtxvafun
sa.vbafisx vdmixvem.vdnppnex vkovmv xuxctafx vxjbcx..anf;vmf vusxf,
mpusnygsvsxvwfxevusxcxvem.vfnusafgvunvdxmcvdcntvKmtxvmuvusmuvtntxfu,vsx
iyffafgpov.ma :

“OnyveappvfnuvpxuvsatvsmctvtxvadvAvuxppvusxvucyus?vAfvusxvisycisvsx
tm xvtxv.exmcvunvuxppvfnvnfxqvSxvimtxvnyuvmpnfxveausvsa.v.enc vafvsa.
smf qvAuvem.vcx veausvkpnn q”

“.unb!”vxjipmatx vusxvxjiaux vbca.nfxc,vca.afgvdcntvsa.vismacqv“Usx
knova.vgarafgvbxczycx --”

“.auv nef,”vusyf xcx vusxvzy gxqvXpanuvcxtnf.ucmux veausvusxvbca.nfxc,
mf vusxvbcn.xiyuncvm.wx :v“Inyp vonyv.xxvau?”

“Ox.,vonycvSnfnc,vdncvAvem.vnfvusxvdpnncvipn.xvkxdncxvusxvismfuco,vmf 
sxvbmy.x vusxcxvunveabxvsa.v.enc vnfvmvkpmiwvipnmwvesaisvsxvsm v cmggx 
nyuveausvsatqvUsxvnusxcvtmfv a vfnuvintxvnyuveausvsatvmf vusxvismfuco
em.vunnv mcwvdncvtxvunv.xxveausafvauqvNfxvndvusxvcyddamf.vcxingfalx 
usxvbca.nfxc,vmf vusxovxfuxcx vusxv.mica.ucovungxusxcqvAv.mevusxtvknus
intxvnyuveausvrx.utxfu.vafvusxacvmct.q”

“Onyv a vfnuv.nvux.uadovybnfvonycvbcxpatafmcovxjmtafmuanf,”v.ma vusx
zy gxq

“Fn,vonycvSnfnc,vAv a vfnuvusafwvauvfxix..mcoq”

“Esov nvonyvfne?v nvonyvkxmcvsatvappveapp?”

“Fnq”

“Smrxvmfovbcnta.x.vkxxfvtm xvony,vadvusxvbca.nfxcv.snyp vkxvdnyf 
gyapuo?”

Usxveaufx..vsx.aumux ,vmf vusxfv.ma :v“Fn,vonycvSnfncq”

“Umwxvusxveaufx..,”v.ma vusxvbcn.xiyuncvunvXpanuq

Bxfixvenf xcx vesxcxvsxvem.vunvkxvumwxfqvSxvsnbx vusmuvauvem.vfnuvunvkx
kmiwvunvsa.vixppqv“Snexrxc,”vsxvusnygsu,v“Avmtvfnuvunvgnvoxuq”

“Esxcxvexcxvonyvzy.uvkcnygsuvdcnt?”vm.wx vXpanuq

“Mvixppvafvusxvbca.nfq”

“Esmuvexcxvonyv nafgvusxcx?”

“Infdafx vunvmemauvtovucampq”

“Dncvesmu?”

“Kycgpmcovndv.uqvNpmrxq”

“Kovesmuvtxmf.v nvonyvparx?”

“Kxggafg,vAv.ybbn.xq”

“Mf vesmuvxp.x?”

“Fnusafgq”

“Esxcxvsmrxvonyvkxxfvparafg?”

“MfoesxcxqvEsxcxrxcvfagsuvdnyf vtxq”

“Xrxcvkxxfvmccx.ux vkxdncx?”

“Ox.q”

“Snevnduxf?”

“Ueaixq”

“Dncvesmu?”

“.uxmpafgq”

“Esovexcxf’uvonyvsyfg?”

“Usxvzy gxvbauax vtovonyus,vmf vwfxevusmuvAvinyp vfnuvumwxvm rmfumgxvnd
usxvkxfxdauvndvipxcgovmf v.nvty.uvsmfgvadvsxv.xfuxfix vtxqvAvinyp vfnu
infvusxvfxiwvrxc.x”v[fnuxv39]q

Mf v.nvusxvhyx.uanfafgvexfuvnfvuscnygsvxrxcovbsm.xvndvusxvkno’.vpadxvun
usxvfagsuvndvusxvicatxqvUsxfvsxvem.v cmefvkmiwvmf vdncus,vafvmf vnyu,
uscnygsvxrxcov.xfuxfixvsxvsm vyuuxcx ,vkyuvmppvunvfnvbycbn.xqvXrxco
mf.excvsxvtm xvnfpov.xcrx vunv.ucxfgusxfvsa.v.uncoqvKmtxvdxpuvusmu
sa.vdmuxvem.v.xmpx vyfpx..vsa.vnefvux.uatnfovinyp vndd.xuvusxvkno’.
bxczycoqvUsxvim.xvem.vipn.x vdncvusxvbcn.xiyuanf,vmf vusxvbca.nfxcvunnw
usxv.umf qvSxvunp vndvusxvxrxfu.vndvusxvfagsuvusxvisycisvem.v.miwx vmf 
kycfu,vkyuvsxvimcxdyppovcxdcmafx vdcntv.umuafgvusmuvusxvtmfveausvsat
muvusxvisycisvem.vTmcpnex,vmpusnygsvsxvem.v.uappvndvusmuvnbafanfq

Dcntvsa.vdac.uvinf.ypumuanfveausvsa.vipaxfu,vXpanuvsm vcxzxiux vusa.
nbafanf;vdncvmgmaf.uvauvem.vusxvcxbncux vincnfxc’.vrxc aiuvndvTmcpnex’.
 xmusqvEm.vauvfnuvbn..akpxvusmuvusa.vyfwfnefvtmfvem.vusxv.y.bxiux 
tyc xcxc?vMffxvsm v.umux vunvKmtxvusmuvusxvbxc.nfvesntvsxvem.vunvtxxu
usmuvfagsuvem.vmvdcaxf vndvsxcvsy.kmf qvAuvem.vtncxvusmfvbcnkmkpx,
usnygsuvXpanu,vusmuvusa.vtmfvem.vusxvsy.kmf vsat.xpd,vmf vm.vKmtxv a 
fnuvwfnevsatvkov.agsu,vsa.vinfdnyf afgvsatveausvTmcpnexvem.vfmuycmpqvMf
afhyacovem.vaf.uauyux vdncvMffx,vkyuv.sxvsm vx.imbx vdcntvusxv.sxcadd’.
sny.xqvUsxva xfuauovndvusa.veaufx..vpmoveausvsxc,vmf vbn..akpovusx
wfnepx gxvndvsa.vesxcxmknyu.;vkyuvsxcvesxcxmknyu.vinyp vfnuvkx
m.ixcumafx qvUsy.v.unn vusxvim.xvesxfvimppx vdncvucampqvUsxcxdncxvXpanu
m ra.x vusmuvmv.umuxtxfuvmiinc afgvunvusxvbca.nfxc’.vnbafanfvenyp vim.u
mv nykuvybnfvusxvfmccmuarxqvUsxvcytncvndvTmcpnex’.v xmusvmuvmvuatx
bcancvunvusxvkycfafgvndv.uqvNpmrxvem.vmpcxm ovbykpai,vmf vauvenyp vkx
.ma :v“Usxvbca.nfxcva.vmv.xpd-infraiux vbxczycxc,vadvfnusafgvtncxqvSx
 xbxf .vdncvbcnndvndvsa.vaffnixfixvybnfvnfxvesnvem.v xm vkxdncxvusx
fagsuvndvusxvdacxqvUsa.va.vsa.vnfpoveaufx..,vmf vkx.a x.,vusxvknovBxfix
.mo.vusmuvusxvtmfvesnvem.veausvusxvbca.nfxcvafvusxvismfucovcxtmafx 
usxcxvmduxcvKmtxvimtxvnyuveausv cabbafgv.enc q”

.nvKmtxvux.uadax vusmuvusxvtmfvem.vmv.ucmfgxc,vmf vsm vyf nykux povtxu
sa.v xmusvafvusxvdpmtx.qvAuvem.vmvrapxvdmp.xsnn vusmuvsxvsm vsmctx 
usa.vtmf,vm.vBxfixvsm v.encfqvFnvnfxvsm v.xxfv.yisvmvbxc.nfvintafg
dcntvusxvisycisqvAfvmppvnusxcvbmcuaiypmc.vKmtxvsxp vunvusxvucyusqvUsx
zycovkxpaxrx vsat,vkyuvusxvzy gxv a vfnuqvDarxvkcxuscxfvdcntvusxvPatx
Sny.xv.encxvunvsa.vgnn vismcmiuxcqvUsxfvTcqvMuuncfxovGxfxcmpvmf vTcq
Kmcca.uxcvXpanuvusyf xcx vdncvnfxv.sncuvsnycvmuvusxvzyco,vmf v ycafg
usxacvmcgytxfu.vusxvmy axfixvmf vusxvzycnc.vexbuvmf vmbbpmy x vaf
uycf.;vkyuvusxvzy gxvsxp v.impx.vusmuvexcxvtnrx vfnvtncxvnfvusxv.a xvnd
zy.uaixvusmfvsa.vnefvsxmcu,vncvsa.vnefvdmixq

Afvusn.xvgnn vnp v mo.,vauvem.v.xp ntvusmuvmfvmiiy.x vbxc.nf,vbpmix 
nfvucampvmuvusxvkmcvndvusxvNp vKmapxo,vx.imbx vinfraiuanfqvXrxfvusnygs
usxvzycovtagsuvdmapvunv a.inrxcvsa.vgyapu,vusxovexcxv.yisvbybbxu.vaf
usxvsmf .vndvusxvzy gxvusmuvsa.veappvem.vusxacveapp;vmf vm.vsxvismcgx 
knusvm.vunvusxvdmiu.vmf vusxvpmevusxovdnyf vm.vsxvaf.ucyiux qvUsxcxvsm 
kxxfvim.x.vesxcxvusxovsm vcxuycfx vrxc aiu.vndvmihyauump,vkyuvafvtmfo
ndvusx.xvusxovsm vkxxfvnc xcx vunvcxuacxvmf vmgmafv xpakxcmuxqv.yis
 xpakxcmuanfvmpemo.vkcnygsuvmknyuvusxv x.acx vismfgxqvM.vKmtx’.vucamp
 cxevunvmvipn.x,vusxvbca.nfxcvsm vcxm.nfvunvucxtkpx,vdncvinfuytxpo
sm vkxxfvsxmbx vybnfvsatvmuvxrxcovbnafuvkovusxvzy gx,vesn.xvsmucx vnd
 a..xfuxc.vem.vexppvwfnefqvSxcxvauvsm vkxxfv.nvranpxfupovxjbcx..x vusmu
uenvndvusxvzycotxf,vesnvexcxvBcx.kouxcamf.,vdxpuvm.vusnygsvnfvucampvdnc
usxacvnefvparx.qvAuvem.vybnfvusx.xvuenvtxfvusmuvKmtxvbpmix vsa.vdmafu
snbxvndvmfvmihyauumpqvKyuvusxovexcxvusxvpm.uvtxfvunvcyfvinyfuxcvunvusx
ea.sx.vndvusxvinycuqvUsxovdxmcx vusmuvmppvsa.vecmusvenyp vkxv acxiux 
mgmaf.uvusxt,vmf vmvinfda.imuanfvndvusxacvx.umux.vtagsuvdnppnev[fnux
40]q

Usxvzy gxvismcgx vafvusxv.mtxv.bacauvafvesaisvsxvsm vcypx v ycafgvusx
umwafgvndvux.uatnfoqvKmtxvsm v.snex vsat.xpdvmvpamc;vsxvem.vgarxfvun
cyafafgvaffnixfuvtxfveausvdmp.xvismcgx.;vsxvsm vxfuxcx vusxvisycis
eausnyuvbxcta..anfvmf vbcnkmkpoveausvdncix;vsxvsm v cmefvmvexmbnfvaf
usxvisycis;vauvem.vbn..akpxvusmuvsxvsm vwappx vmvtmfvusxcx,vmf vusxf
znafx vusxvpmepx..vicxevndvusaxrx.qvUsxvzycovty.uvfnuvkxvafdpyxfix 
kximy.xvsxvem.vmv xrnyuvKcnefa.uqvUsmuv.xiuvem.vunvkxv x.ba.x qvAuvem.
mpcxm ovgcneafgvunnv.ucnfgvafvusxvinttyfauo,vmf vusxvtxtkxc.vtxcaux 
mvcxkywxqvSxvenyp vsmrxvaf.ucyiux vusxvzycovunvkcafgvafvmvrxc aiuvnd
gyapuo,vkyuvsxv.mevusmuvauvem.vyffxix..mcoqvSxvbcnrx vsat.xpdvmv.safafg
xjmtbpxvdncvusxvpmuxcvZxddcxo.,vmf vcma.x vmvbcxix xfuvdncvusxvpmuuxc
unvdnppnevafvusxvkpnn ovm..alx.qvUsxvzycovexcxvdmausdypvunvsa.vismcgx,
fnuvusxacvnef,vmf vcxuycfx vmvrxc aiuvndvgyapuoq




USXvTM.UXCvSMF vA.vSXCXq

vvvv_Nvesmuvmvencp vndvbcndauvmf v xpagsu,_
vvvv_Ndvbnexc,vndvsnfnc,vndvntfabnuxfix_
vvvv_A.vbcnta.x vunvusxv.uy any.vmcua.mfq_

vvvv--_Dmy.uy.,vaq_

vvvv_WfneafgvAvpnrx vtovknnw.,vsxvdycfa.sx vtx,_
vvvv_Dcntvtovnefvpakcmco,veausvrnpytx.vusmu_
vvvv_Avbcalxvmknrxvtov ywx ntq_

vvvv--_Uxtbx.u,va,v2q_


Usxv.xicxuvncmuncovndvusxvwafgvsxp vfnv.sm ne.veausafvau.v.hymcxvempp.
nfvmvtn.uvtxtncmkpxvfagsuv.xrxcmpvtnfus.vmduxcvusxvucampvndvKmtxqvUsx
pmtbvfxmcvusxvacnf-pmuuaix veaf nevem.vkycfafg,vmf vmvdacxvkpmlx vaf
usxvisatfxo-km.wxuqvKx.a x.vusxvpagsu,vnusxcvpmuxvm  auanf.vunvusx
cnnt,vinfucakyux vunv a.bxpvau.vafkncfvmacvndvmy.uxcxfx..qvNfxvndvusx
umbx.ucax.vdcntvusxvtmafvismtkxcvsm vkxxfvcxtnrx vdcntvau.vsmfgafg.,
mf vpmovsxcxvybnfvusxvdpnnc,vmvranpxfuvmbbcnbcamuanfvunvcy xvy.x.vndvm
ucmbbafgvndvcnompuoqvUenvndvusxvxm.ax.uvismac.,vesaisvsm vm  x vunvusx
pyjycany.fx..vndvusxv.mtxvismtkxc,vsm vmp.nvkxxfvkcnygsuvafqvKyuvusx
mcuaipx.vesaisvcxf xcx vtn.uvm..a.umfixvafvismfgafgvusxvcnntvdcntvm
ixppvunvmv.uy o,vexcxvusxvknnw.v.sxprx vkxpnevusxv.hymcxveaf neqvUsx.x
sm vkxxfvinfucakyux ,vnfxvmuvmvuatx,vkovUmtencusvmf vBxxpx,vyfuapvm
gnn povpakcmcovndvGcxxwvmf vPmuaf,vXfgpa.s,vDcxfisvmf vAumpamfvknnw.
.unn vmgmaf.uvusxvemppq

Dncvtncxvusmfvmvoxmc,vafvrnpyfumcovxjipy.anfvdcntvusxvencp ,vTmcpnex
sm vbyc.yx vusxvniiybmuanfvesaisvsxvsm voxmc.v.afixvm nbux ,vkyu
afvesaisvdmuxvfnevintbxppx vsatvunvcxf xcvxjipy.arxvmf vyfemrxcafg
.xcraixqvMpusnygsvsxvem.v cafwafgvdcntvusxvafxjsmy.uakpxvexpp.vnd
af.bacx vtm.uxc.vafvmppvusxvbcnrafix.vndvusnygsu,vauvem.vusxvzxmpny.
ty.xvndv cmtmuaivbnxucovusmuvmpnfxv.muvkx.a xvsatvmf vinttmf x vsa.
bnexc.qvUsxvmpuxcfmuafgv.bmix.vndvpagsuvmf v mcwfx..vafvusxvdpagsu
ndvuatxvsm viyuvfnvdagycxvafvsa.vtnn .vdncvencwvmf vcx.u;vmf vusy.
esapxvusxvfagsuvsm vdmppxfvybnfvmv movndvyfdpmggafgvaf y.uco,vsxv.uapp
infuafyx vencwafgvmuvsa.vumkpxqvEsapxvusy.vxfgmgx ,vmvfmccnev.bmixvnd
usxvemppvnbbn.auxvusxvxjx cmv.eyfgvafemc ,vmf vmvdmtapamcvdmixv.snex 
au.xpdvafvusxv mcwvnbxfafgqvAuvem.vusmuvndvBxxpx,vusxv cmtmua.u,vmf 
eausvmvsxmcuov.mpyumuanfvsxvxfuxcx ,vipn.xpovdnppnex vkov.smwx.bxcxq

“Usnyvmcuv nykpovexpintx,”v.ma vTmcpnex,vca.afgvmf vgcm.bafgvusx
nyu.ucxuisx vsmf .vndvsa.vyfxjbxiux vra.aunc.q

“.n?”vhyx.uanfx vBxxpx,v“kyuvAvdxmcvusmuvkxdncxvonyvsxmcvusxvfxe.vmf vA
m ra.xveausvusxx,vusa.vexpintxvtmovkxvusnygsuvafmbbcnbcamuxq”

“FxrxcvesapxvAvmtvndvxfnygsvinfixcfvunvkcafgvusxxvsxcx,”v.ma vTmcpnex,
dxxpafgpoq

“Mf vA,vnfvtovbmcu,vmtvsxcxveausvmvtx..mgxvndvfnvbpxm.afgvatbncu,”v.ma 
.smwx.bxcx,v.xcany.poq

“Esmu!vicnmwafgvcmrxf.,vknusvndvusxx?”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,veausvmv.tapx
esaisvafvfnvemovuxf x vunv.imuuxcvusxacvmbbmcxfuvgpnntq

“A.vusxvpmf pnc vndvusxvKnmc’.vSxm vbcx..afgvusxx,vBxxpx,vdncvuenvbxfix
dncvusovpm.uv cmygsu.vndvTmpt.xo;vmf vsm.vusovmk.xfuveadxv xtmf x vuso
attx amuxvcxuycfvunvusxvdnypvmppxo.vndv.ucmudnc -nf-Mrnf,v.smwx.bxcx?
Ncvadvfnu,vesovusx.xv.m vbcx.mgafgvinyfuxfmfix.,vtncxvpawxvusn.xvndvusx
enc.sabxc.vmuvusxvUcakypmuanfvusmfvndvsnfx.uvmf vdxmcpx..vtxf?vEnyp 
onyvkcafgvkpyxv xrap.vafunvusa.vgpncany.vbpmixvndvtacusvunvbcnrnwx
tnmfafgvesxcxvfnusafgvkyuvpmygsuxcvbcxrmap.?vMtvA--”

“Intx,vintx,”vafuxccybux v.smwx.bxcx,v“eaussnp vusovmuuxtbu.vmu
.mcim.tqvExvmcxvfnuvsxcxvunvgxuvusxxvunvinf npxveausvy.q”

“Kyuvunvgarxvusxxvdcaxf povm raix,”vinfuafyx vBxxpxq

“Auva.vdncvusovafuxcx.u,”vm  x v.smwx.bxcxq

“Ms!”v.ma vTmcpnex,v“esovfnuvusxfvkxgafvauveausvmv.nfg?”

“Ndvinyc.xv.afgafgva.vnyuvndvusxvhyx.uanf,”vcx.bnf x vBxxpx,v“mf v.nfg
eausnyuveafxva.vpawxvtxmuveausnyuv.mpu,v.nvexvimfvsmrxvfxausxc,vdncvusx
fnfixvmuvpxm.uqvKyuvfnevpxuvtxvm.w:vesmuvbcngcx..vsmrxvonyvtm xv.afixvA
em.vsxcx?”

“Avmtv xxbvafvusxvusac vmiu,”vmf.excx vTmcpnex,vbaiwafgvybvmvbmgxvnd
usxvtmfy.icabuvndvCntxnvmf vZypaxu,vesaisvpmov.imuuxcx vnrxcvusxvunb
ndvusxvumkpxv“Mf vesmuvusafwvonyvndvusa.vm.vusxv.bxxisvndvmvpnrx-pncf
tma xf?

vvvvGmppnbvmbmixvonyvdaxco-dnnux v.uxx .
vvvvUnemc vBsnxky.’vtmf.anf;v.yisvmvemggnfxc
vvvvM.vBsmxunfvenyp vesabvonyvunvusxvEx.u,
vvvvMf -kcafgvafvipny ovfagsuvattx amuxpoq”

Sxvenyp vsmrxvinfuafyx ,vkyuvBxxpxvafuxccybux :v“Snp !vonyvsmrxvbyu
.atapmcvpmfgymgxvafvusxvtnyusvndvX emc vAA,v x.icabuarxvndvsa.v x.acx
dncvusxv.sncuxfafgvndvuatxvkxdncxvkmuupxqvAvcxinppxiuvauvexpp;vusy.:

vvvv‘Gmppnbvmbmix,vkcagsuvBsnxky.,vuscnygsvusxv.wo;
vvvvMf v y.wovfagsuvafvcy.uovacnfvimc,
vvvvKxuexxfvonyvknusv.sncuxfvusxvuatx,vAvbcmo,
vvvvUsmuvAvtmov.xxvusmuvtn.uv x.acx v moq’”

“Expp?”vxjipmatx vTmcpnexq

“Onyvty.uvismfgxvau,”v.ma v.smwx.bxcxq

“Esov.snyp vA?”vcxuncux vTmcpnex,v“mvtmfvimffnuvinttauvbpmgamcovnfvsa.
nefvecauafg.;vmf ,vmpusnygsvusxv.uopxvndvintbn.auanfva.v.atapmc,vmf 
usxvdagycxva.vy.x vafvknusvbpmix.vunvcmapvmgmaf.uvusxv.pnefx..vndvuatx,
onyvty.uvmiwfnepx gxvusmuvusxovmcxvknusvmbbcnbcamuxvafvusxacvbpmix.q”

“Fnevusa.vsm.vkcnygsuvtxvunvusxvrxcov.ykzxiuvesaisvAvimtxvsxcxvunvumpw
nrxcveausvony,”vcx.bnf x vBxxpxq

“Ms,v.nvonyvmcxvusxvdac.uvnfxvunv cmevusxv.enc ?vSm.vusxvbcx.xfutxfuvnd
tovpmux.uv cmtmvmuvusxvCn.xvmemwxfx vusovyfdmrncmkpxvnbafanf?vEm.vusx
dmypuveausvusxvbpmoxc.vncveausvto.xpd?”

“Onycvencwvatbcnrx.veausvxrxcovpafxvonyvecaux,”v.ma vBxxpx,
xfusy.am.uaimppo,v“kyuv.uappveausvmppvusxvaficxm.xvndvpxmcfafg
 a.bpmox ,vusxvgcneafgvintbmiufx..vndvxjbcx..anf,vusxv.y.umafx vdacx,
usxvtmuycauovndvusnygsu,vusxv arxc.xfx..vndvnbafanf,vusxvenf cny.
xjbmf.xvndvsytmfvsncalnfv a.ipn.x ,--usov.uopxva.v.umtbx vaf a.byumkpo
ybnfvxrxcovbm..mgxq”

“.n!vAvsmrxvpmkncx vunvismfgxvauq”

“Tmcco,vkyuvusnyvsm.uvfnu”v[fnuxv41]q

“Usxfvauva.vpawxvtov.waf,vmvbmcuvndvtxq”

“Fnvtncxvunvkxvismfgx vusmfvusovinyfuxfmfix,vauv.xxt.,vesaisveausvmgx
mf vxjbxcaxfixvtmovgxuvfxevpafx.vmf vgcnevea.xcvpnnwafg,vkyuv.uapp
.sne.vusxvnp vdmtapamcvxjbcx..anf.veausvxrxcovismfgxvndvdxxpafgq”

“Usxfvusxcxva.vfnvsxpbq”

“Kyuvusnyvty.uvismfgxvusovtxusn .vndvucxmutxfuvndv.ntxv.ykzxiu.q”

“MgmafvAvm.w,vesov.snyp vA?”

Bxxpxv.ycrxox vsatvpawxvmvdmusxcvtagsuvsa.vcxicxmfuv.nf,vmf v.smwx.bxcx
.pnepov.snnwvsa.vsxm vm.vusnygsvusxvim.xvexcxvnfxvkxonf vmppviycx,
xjipmatafgvm.vsxv a v.n:v“Eso,vtmf,vdncvusafxvnefv.mdxuoq”

“A.vusmuvafv mfgxc?”

“Auveappvkx,”vinfuafyx vBxxpx,v“GmkcaxpvSmcrxovmf vGxncgxvIsmbtmfvexcx
afvtovsxmcafgv a.iy..afgvusxv cmtmvndvUauy.vMf cnfaiy.vm.vbcx.xfux vko
usxvXmcpvndv.y..xj’vmiunc.vmuvusxvCn.x,vmvexxwv.afix;vmf ,vmpusnygsvusx
bpmovem.v.np vunvSxf.pnex,vm.vnfxvecauuxfvkov.smwx.bxcx,vSmcrxov.encx
auvty.uvkxvusafxq”

“Mf vesmuv.ma vIsmbtmf,”vafuxccybux vTmcpnexq

“Sxv.ma ,v‘Tn.uv mtfmkpovpawxvTmcpnex’.,vkyuvixcumafvauva.vusmuvauvem.
fnuvmtnfgvsa.vbn.usytny.vxddxiu.,vmf vauvem.vfxrxcvbcx.xfux vyf xcvsa.
fmtx,vfncvkxdncxvsa.v xmusq’”

“Mf vesmuv.ma vSmcrxo?”

“Sxv.ma vucypovusmuvadvusnyv a .uvfnuvecauxvau,vusxfvusa.vdxppne
.smwx.bxcxvsm vimygsuvusovrxcovucaiwvndvsmf q”

Muvusa.vcxtmcw,v.smwx.bxcxvpmygsx v.nvsxmcuapovusmuvxrxfvusxvnusxc.vsm 
unvznafveausvsatq

“Mbuvicauai.,vusx.x,”v.ma vTmcpnex,v“’ua.v.ucmfgxvusmuvusxov.snyp v.xx
cx.xtkpmfix.vkxuexxfvusmuvbpmovmf vmfovndvtovmiwfnepx gx vencw.q”

“Kms,”vcxuycfx vBxxpx,v“fnvnfxv.nvkpaf vm.vmvtnusxcvunvusxvdmypu.vnd
sxcvisap qv.ucmfgx?vEsovusmuvbpmova.vdyppvndvusafxvnp v.bacauqvSxcx,
garxvtxvusovinbovndvau,vmf vndvusovZxevndvTmpumq”

Tmcpnexvuycfx vunvmvisx.uvkx.a xvsa.vumkpxvmf v cxevdncusvuenvcnpp.vnd
tmfy.icabuqvSxvsmf x vusxtvunvBxxpx,vesnvnbxfx vusxvZxevndvTmpumvmuvusx
.xinf vmiu,vmf vcxm :

vvvv“M.vdncvto.xpdvAvempwvmkcnm vn’vfagsu.
vvvvvMf vwappv.aiwvbxnbpxvgcnmfafgvyf xcvempp.:
vvvvv.ntxuatx.vAvgnvmknyuvmf vbna.nfvexpp.:

vvvvvvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*

vvvvvMf vmpemo.vwxbuvusxv.xjunf’.vmct.vafvycx
vvvvvEausv aggafgvgcmrx.vmf vcafgafgv xm vtxf’.vwfxpp.:

vvvvvvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*

vvvvvMf vxrxcovtnnfvtm xv.ntxvncvnusxcvtm ,
vvvvvMf vfnevmf vusxfvnfxvsmfgvsat.xpdvdncvgcaxdq
vvvvvBaffafgvybnfvsa.vkcxm.uvmvpnfgvgcxmuv.icnpp
vvvvvSnevAveausvafuxcx.uvunctxfux vsatq”

“Mf vfne,”vsxvinfuafyx ,v“.xxvsnevusnyvsm.uvataumux vusovxmcpovmf 
attmuycxvencwvmptn.uvunvmfvxisnq”

Sxvyfcnppx vusxvtmfy.icabuvndvUauy.vMf cnfaiy.vmuvusxvdadusvmiu,vmf 
cxm :

vvvv“NduvsmrxvAv aggx vybv xm vtxfvdcntvusxacvgcmrx.
vvvvvMf v.xuvusxtvybcagsuvmuvusxacv xmcvdcaxf .’v nnc.,
vvvvvXrxfvesxfvusxacv.nccne.vmptn.uvexcxvdncgnu;
vvvvvMf vnfvusxacv.waf.vm.vnfvusxvkmcwvndvucxx.,
vvvvvSmrxveausvtovwfadxvimcrx vafvCntmfvpxuuxc.,
vvvvv‘Pxuvfnuvonycv.nccnev axvusnygsvAvmtv xm q’
vvvvvUyu!vAvsmrxv nfxvmvusny.mf v cxm dypvusafg.,
vvvvvM.veappafgpovm.vnfxvenyp vwappvmvdpoq”

“Fnevafvusa.v.mtxvbpmo,vusnyvsm.uvgarxfvy.vusxvrxcovxisnvndvUmtkycpmafx
mf vsa.vhyxxfvLxfnicmuxqvUsxv.ixfxvesxcxvUmtncmvdac.uvmbbxmc.vunvusx
xtbxcncva.vinyisx vafva xfuaimpvpmfgymgxveausvusxvnfxvesxcxvLxfnicmux
a.vgarxfvusxvicnefvkovusxvwafg;vmf vmgmafvafvusxvdac.uvmiuvndvusx
dac.uvbmcuvndvSxfcovRAvonyvucxmuvusxv xmusvndvZnmfvafvusxv.mtxvtmffxc
m.vonyv nvusxv xmusvndvLxfnicmuxqvFnv.xcrapxvataumuncvinyp vsmrxvtncx
imcxdyppovinbax vsa.vtm.uxcq”

“Sa.vrxcovucaiwvndvsmf ,”v cmepx v.smwx.bxcxq

Tmcpnexv a vfnuvcxbpo,vkyuvinfuafyx vmvcmbuvpa.uxfxcvesapxvsa.vdcaxf 
exfuvnfveausvaficxm.afgvmc nc:

“AfvmiuvAAvndvUauy.vMf cnfaiy.vonyvecauxvndvusxvgnp xfv.yfvgmppnbafg
‘usxvln amivafvsa.vgpa.uxfafgvinmis,’vm.vusnygsvafvonycvxmc.v.uapp
cmuupx v‘ygpov mcwfx..veausvsxcvcy.uovinmis,’vm.vonyvsmrxv x.icakx vusx
fagsuvafvmiuvRvndvusxvdac.uvbmcuvndvUmtkycpmafxvmf vmgmafvafvX emc 
AAqvAdvusnyvty.uvumwxvusxvtn.uv.ucawafgvbm..mgx.vndvusovUmtkycpmafx,
mf viyuvdcntvusxtv.icmb.vmf vbaxix.vybnfvesaisvunvbm vnyuvusx.xvpmuxc
 cmtm.,vusnyv.snyp vkxvtncxviaciyt.bxiuvafvusxacvy.xqvAdvusnyvmcuvfnu,
nfxvndvuenvusafg.veappv.ycxpovdnppne,vusovdcaxf vsxcx,vesnv.umf .vm.
usovtm.w,veappvkxv ykkx vmvbpmgamca.uvndvrapx.uv.ncu,vncvmppvusx.x
bpmo.veappvkxvbcnipmatx vusafxq”

“.mrxvtxvdcntv.yisvmvimpytfo,”vxjipmatx v.smwx.bxcx,v“mf vBxxpxv.bxmw.
ucyus,vdncvmvuxtbx.uvsm.vmpcxm ovkxgyfvunvkcxeqvKyuvusmuva.vtov.unco,
mf vAvty.uvfnuvkcxmwvusxvuscxm vndvBxxpx’.vmcgytxfuq”

“Expp!vMf vesmuvadvusxvbpmo.vmcxvbcnipmatx vtafxvm.vonyvtxfuanf?”vm.wx 
Tmcpnexq

“Eso,vusovxja.uxfixveappvkxv a.inrxcx ,vdncvknusvIsmbtmfvmf vFm.svwfne
usxvdyppvpa.uvndvonycvencw.qvBxcsmb.vtncxvwfnevauqvUsxvcxbncuvndvuso
 xmusva.vpnn.xvmf vsm.vfnuvkxxfvea xpoviaciypmux qvSmcrxovmuucakyux vau
unvusxvbpmgyxq”

“Ox.,”v.ma v.smwx.bxcx,v“sxvecnuxvusmuv‘gngpx-xox v.nffxu’vmknyuvony
afv.xbuxtkxc,v1593,vinfumafafgvusxvpafx,v‘Sxvmf vusxvbpmgyxvinfuxf x 
dncvusxvgmtx,’vmf vsnevusxv‘gcmyf v a.xm.x’v.tapx vmuvonycv‘Umtkycpmafx
infuxtbu,’vmf v‘.uxcfpov.ucyiwvsntxq’”

“Xfnygsvndvusmu!”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,vatbmuaxfupo,v“Av.smppvoxuvgxuvxrxf
eausvusmuvrappmafny.v.nffxuxxcq”

“Kyuvunvcxuycfvunvusmuv x.icabuanfvndvfagsuvafvmiuvRvndvusxvdac.uvbmcu
ndvUmtkycpmafx,”v.ma vBxxpx,v“usxcx,vusxvsnc.x.vusmuv cmgvusxvfagsu,
‘dcntvusxacvfn.ucap.vkcxmusxvcxkxppany.veaf .vmf v cxm dypvusyf xc
ipmb.;’vesapxvafvusxv.xinf vbmcuvndvSxfcovRA,vusxv.mtxvnp vsnc.x.v‘dcnt
usxacvta.uovzme.vkcxmusxvdnypvinfumgany.v mcwfx..vafvusxvmacq’vUsx
txusn vndv x.icabuanfvmf vusxvdagycx.vndv.bxxisvmcxvusxv.mtx,vmf vony
bxc.nfadovusxv.mtxvnkzxiu.q”

“Expp,vauva.vmvdmrncauxv x.icabuanfvndvtafxvdncvfagsu,vmf vm.vto
muuxfuanfva.vimppx vunvau,vAvfnevcxtxtkxcvusmuvafvtovSxcnvmf vPxmf xc,
‘usxvfagsuv*v*v*vsxmrx vybvsxcvsxm vmf vkcxmusx v mcwfx..vdncusq’[28]
Usa.va.vusxvpm.uvuatxvusmuvAv.smppvy.xvusxvdagycxq”

“Expp,vusmuvbm..mgxvdcntvSxfcovRA,”vcx.ytx vBxxpx,v“usmuvAvsmrxvzy.u
mppy x vunva.vmp.nvpawxvmfnusxcvafvUmtkycpmafx,vkxgaffafg:v‘Kpmiwva.
usxvkxmyuovndvusxvkcagsux.uv mo’”v[fnuxv42]q

“Bn..akpovusxovmcxvnbxfvunvicauaia.tqvAv.smppvcxra.x,vmf vafvdyuycx
pmkncvunemc vbxcdxiuanfvafvenc vinf xf.muanf,”v.ma vTmcpnex,v“kyu
Avimffnuv x.ucnovmppvusxvexppvuycfx vpafx.qvDncvaf.umfix,vusxcxva.
usxv.mtxv.bacauvkcxmusafgvuscnygsvusxvrxc.x.vdncvusxvdcamcvPmycxfix,
kxgaffafgv‘Usxvgcxo-xox vtncfv.tapx.vnfvusxvdcnefafgvpagsu;’vkyuvsne
imfvAviycumap,vsnevcxtn xpveausvsnbxvndvbcx.xcrafgvusxacvkxmyuo?vOny
tmovm..xcuvusmuv.yisvpafx.vxisnveausvusxvty.aivndvSxcnvmf vPxmf xc,vmf 
eausvusxtv cmevmvipn.xvbmcmppxpvunvusxvbm..mgxvafvusxvpmuuxc,vesxcx
Mbnppn’.vgnp xfvsmcbvmcny.x vSx.bxcy.,vkyuvAv.smppvfnuvismfgxvusxtqvUsx
icauai.vtmovsmrxvdnn vdncvusnygsuvmf vusxovtmovgcnev.ucnfgvxfnygsvybnf
auvunvkxvdncta mkpx,vkyuv.nvpnfgvm.vAvecauxvndvpnrx,vusxvpafx.vty.uvkx
im.uvafvusxvbycx.uvtnyp vusmuvAvmtvimbmkpxvndvy.afgq”

“Usxfv x.ucnovusovNra vmf vSntxc,vmf vgnvkmiwvunv.xfxim;vcxm vBpyumcis
mf vSnpaf.sx qvUsnyvsm.uvecauuxfvpnrxvucmgx ax.vmf vsa.uncaimpvbpmo.;
umwxvusovDmy.uy.vdncvusxvtn xpvndvmv cmtmvndv.uxcfvmf v mcwxfx vpadxq”

“.smppvauvkxvucmgx o?”

“Ox.,vusxv mcwx.uvbaiuycxvndvusovtaf q”

“Tovnefvkauuxcvxjbxcaxfix.q”

“Smrxvauv.nvadvusnyveapu,”vcxuycfx vBxxpx,v“auva.vnfpovsxvesnvsm.
 cmafx vusxviybvndv xxbx.uv.nccnevmf vdxpuvusxvunnusvndvm rxc.auo,vusmu
imfv cmev.yisvmvbaiuycxq”

Mf v.nvusxvdagycxvndvusxvtxpmfisnpov mfxvmcn.x,vusxvbxcdxiuvxtkn atxfu
muvusmuvbxcan vndvusxvnbbcx..x vecauxcqvFnuvmuvnfxv.ucnwxv a vauvca.x
afunvau.vbcx.xfuvmptn.uvbmpbmkpxvdnct,vkyuvyf xcvusxvpmkncvndvoxmc.vaf
esaisvusxvpx..vafuxf.xvbpmo.vexcxvbcn yix q

Auvem.vfnev.yggx.ux vusmuvusxvcxtmaf xcvndvusxvxrxfafgvkxv.bxfuvaf
Umtencus’.vcnnt,vmf vm.vauvusxfvmbbxmcx vunnvpmuxvdncvmfovndvusx
pmeoxc’.vdcaxf .vunv.xxwvm tauumfix,vusxvuscxxvtxfvbm..x vafunvusx
wafg’.vismtkxcqvAuvem.vxtbuo,vkyuvusxvkycfafgvpmtbv.snex vusmuvUmtencus
sm veaus cmefvdncvmv.sncuvuatxvnfpoqvMduxcvsmrafgvm tauux vBxxpxvmf 
.smwx.bxcx,vsxvsm vgnfxvunvmvfxagskncafgvnc afmcovdncvmvpmuxvcxbm.uq
Usxvdacxvsm v.tnp xcx vunvm.sx.vnfvusxvsxmcus,vkyuvau.vcxixfuvkpmlxvsm 
.nviyuvusxvisappvndvusxvcnntvusmuvauvem.vnfvmfvxrxfvuxtbxcmuycxveaus
usmuvndvusxvdacx-pagsux vncmuncoqvUsxovgmusxcx vmcnyf vusxvkpmiwvumkpx
kxpnevusxv.y.bxf x vpmtbq

“Fne,”v.ma vTmcpnex,vm  cx..afgv.smwx.bxcx,v“esmuva.vusovcxbncuvdcnt
Sxf.pnexvybnfvusxvuenvmiu.vndvCntxnvmf vZypaxuvmf vau.vbcnbn.x 
intbpxuanf?”

“Yfdmrncmkpx,”vmf.excx v.smwx.bxcx,v“sxvsm.vdpmupovcxdy.x vunvmiixbu
auq”

“Eso,v’ua.v.ycxpov.ucnfgxcvmf vtncxv cmtmuaivusmfvUauy.vMf cnfaiy.,vdnc
esaisvsxvbma vy.vuxfvbnyf .,vmf vusmuvsm.vfnevkxxfvnfvusxvknmc .vndvusx
Cn.xvdncvuenvtnfus.qvAuvty.uvkxvusmuvSxf.pnexva.vfnuvnfpovpn.afgvusx
pauupxvmkapauovndvicauaia.tvsxvnfixvbn..x..x ,vkyuvsa.vky.afx..v.xf.x
m.vexppqvEsmuvsm.vkcnygsuvmknyuvusxvismfgx?vSm.uvusnyvmfova xm?”

“Avexfuvafvunvsat,vm.vsxcxundncx,”vkxgmfv.smwx.bxcx,v“mf vafvgcxmu
xm.ovismac.,vesxcxvdyppvusxvkpmlafgvpagsuvndvmvicmiwpafgvisatfxo-dacx
dxppvybnfvusxt,v.muvSxf.pnexvmf vusxvpmuxv.ucnppafg-bpmoxc,vZnf.nfqvA
wfnevfnuvkovesmuvtxmf.vZnf.nfvsmusvusxvxmc,vmf vmox,vusxvsxmcu,vndvusx
tmfmgxcvndvusxvCn.x;vkyuvipxmcvbcnndvndvauvem.v.snefqvSxf.pnexvemrx 
txvunvmvismac,vkyuvZnf.nfvagfncx vtovbcx.xfixq”v‘Tcqv.smwx.bxcx,’v.ma 
Sxf.pnex,vfn  afgvunvZnf.nf,vmf vusxfvusxvpmuuxcv.ma ,v‘Avsmrxvsxmc 
ndvsat,’vmf vA,v‘KxfvZnf.nf,vpmuxvcxuycfx vdcntvusxvPnevInyfucax.,’
mf vmuvusmuvZnf.nfvgpmcx vmuvtxvm.vusnygsvtovbcx.xfixvexcxv.imcixpo
.yddxcmkpxvmf vtovrnaixvafunpxcmkpxq

“‘Bcyu!’vxjipmatx vSxf.pnex,vfnuaiafgvusxvappvtmffxcvndvsa.vintbmfanf
mf v.sneafgv a.mbbcnrmpqvUsxfvuycfafgvsa.vmuuxfuanfvunvusxv.xcrmfu,vsx
.ma ,v‘DappvnfxvtncxqvNycvdcaxf vty.uvicy.svmviybvndveafxveausvy.q’
Usa.vusxv.xcrmfuv a vdcntvmvknuupxvndvdafx.uvimfmcovdcntvusxv.a xknmc 
esaisvkpmlx veausvgap x ,v.aprxcvmf vgnp vemcxq

“Sxf.pnexvsm vmviybvndvoxppneveafxvipn.xvkx.a xvsat,vmf v.nvsm vZnf.nfq
Usxvdmixvndvusxvdnctxcvmbbxmcx vyfy.ymppovintbpmixfu;vmf vfnusafg,
uscnygsvusxvtx aytvndvsa.vxox.vmpnfxvinyp vsmrxv a.uyckx vsa.v.ybcxtx
dxpaiauo,vdncvusnyvwfnexusvusxvcaisfx..vndvusxvumbx.ucax.vndvusmu
bpxm.afgv xfvndvusxvnbypxfuvtmfmgxcvndvusxvCn.x;vusxvencw.vndvmcuvybnf
au.vempp.;vusxvgcmf v a.bpmovndvsa.vin.upovpakcmcax.vndvyfcxm vknnw.;
usxv.ndufx..vndvau.vUycwa.svimcbxu.vmf vndvau.vybsnp.uxcx vdycfauycxq
Usxvaf.a any.vencwafg.vndvimfmcoveafxvexcxvdncvbxmixvmf vcx.uq

“Avenyp vdmafvsmrxveaus cmef,vkyuvkxafgvusxcxvnfvusovkxsmpd,vAvbyuvnfvm
dmixvndvyfinfixcf,vmf v.muveausvkmiwvunemc vZnf.nfqvTxusafw.vusxveafx
sm v.uaccx vsa.veau.vmf vtm xvsatvwxxfvdncvinfucnrxc.oq”

“Mf vdmacpovgadux vsxva.vafv.yisvpafxq”

“M.vAv.nnfv a.inrxcx ,vdncvkxdncxvAvsm vuatxvunv.movunvSxf.pnexvusx
enc .,v‘Unvusovgnn vsxmpus,’vm.vAv cmfw,vZnf.nfv.ma ,v‘Mf vesmuvimcx.
sxvdncvkpnn vesxfveafxveappvhyxfisvsa.vusac.uq’vUsy.vkxgaffafgveausvm
.pov.fxxcvmuvUmtkycpmafxq”

“Sxvxra xfupovinf.a xc.v.smwx.bxcxvmfvataumuncvndvusxv xm vTmcpnex,”
.ma vBxxpx,vpnnwafgvmuvTmcpnexq

“Fnuvfxix..mcapo,”vcxtmcwx vTmcpnex,v“Avsmc povusafwvusmuvusxvbm..mgx
dcntvUmtkycpmafxvem.vafvsa.vtaf qvSxvsm vxra xfupovzy.uvcxm vusxvdac.u
.ixfxvndvCntxnvmf vZypaxu,vesxcxvusxvbcafixvcxkywx.vsa.v.ykzxiu.
dncvhyxfisafgvusxacvcmgxv‘Eausvbycbpxvdnyfumaf.va..yafgvdcntvonyc
rxaf.q’”[29]

“Ms!vusxcxvauva.vmgmaf,”vxjipmatx vBxxpxq

“Expp,vAvbma vfnvmuuxfuanfvunvZnf.nf,vkyuvm  cx..x vto.xpdvunvSxf.pnexq
Usxvyb.snuvndvusxvtmuuxcvem.vusmuvsxvemfux vfnvtncxvbpmo.veausvbpnu.
pma vafvdncxagfvpmf .q”

“Onyvmcxvcagsu,”vafuxccybux vTmcpnex,v“sxva.vyf xcvZnf.nf’.vafdpyxfixq”

“Znf.nfvsm vtyisvunv.movafvusxvinfrxc.muanfqvMuvnfxvuatxvsxvm.wx vtx
advAv a vfnuvusafwvAvem.vdnppneafgvunnvipn.xpovusxv‘tagsuovpafx.’vnd
Tmcpnexvunvxrxcvkxv xxtx vmfousafgvtncxvusmfvmvtxcxvataumunc,vmf 
sxvesabbx vnyuvusa.vbmbxc,vesaisvsxv.ma vAvtagsuvwxxbvdncvdyuycx
cxdxcxfix,vmf vm.vmvemcfafgvusmuvsa.vxox.vexcxvnbxfqvSxvxausxcvwfxe
usmuvesmuvsxvsm vcxm vndvCntxnvmf vZypaxuvem.vecauuxfvkovusxx,vTmcpnex,
ncvsxvemfux vfnvusxdu.vunvkxvtm xvdcntvsa.vnefvbpmo.qvUsa.va.vsa.
mccmagftxfu:

vvvv‘Advpnrxvkxvkpaf ,vpnrxvimffnuvsauvusxvtmcwq’

vvvv--Cntxnvmf vZypaxu,vaa,v1q

vvvvPnrxvtn xcmuxpo,vpnfgvpnrxv nusv.nq

vvvv--Cntxnvmf vZypaxu,vaa,v6q

vvvvPnrxvgnx.vunemc vpnrxq

vvvv--Cntxnvmf vZypaxu,vaa,v2q

vvvvMf vesmuvpnrxvimfv n,vusmuv mcx.vpnrxvmuuxtbuq

vvvv--Cntxnvmf vZypaxu,vaa,v2q

vvvvEsnxrxcvpnrx vusmuvpnrx vfnuvmuvdac.uv.agsuq

vvvv--Sxcnvmf vPxmf xcq

vvvvPnrxvtxvpauupx,vpnrxvtxvpnfgq

vvvv--ZxevndvTmpum,varq

vvvvEausvpnrxvmf vbmuaxfixvpxuvonycvucyxvpnrxv axq

vvvv--AAvUmtkycpmafx,vaa,v4q

vvvv‘BnncvBnxu-Mbx,vusmuvenyp vkxvusnygsuvnycvisaxd,
vvvvvvvvEsn.xvencw.vmcxvx’xfvusxvdcabbxcovndveau,
vvvvDcntvkcniwmgxva.vkxintxv.nvknp vmvusaxd,
vvvvvvvvM.vex,vusxvcnkkx ,vpxmrxvcmgx,vmf vbauovauq’

vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*vvvvvvv*

vvvvSxvtmcw.vfnuvesn.xv’uem.vdac.u;vmf vmduxc-uatx.
vvvvvvvvTmovzy gxvauvunvkxvsa.,vm.vexppvm.vnyc.q
vvvvDnnp!vm.vadvsmpdvxox.veappvfnuvwfnevmvdpxxix
vvvvDcntvpniw.vndvennp,vncv.scx .vdcntvusxvesnpxvbaxix!

vvvv--KxfqvZnf.nfq”

“Usxfvdnppneafgvusa.vxjsakauanf,vZnf.nfv.ma ,v’Usnyvsm.uvfnuvoxuvkxgyf
unvbyuvuso.xpdvdncemc vbykpaipovm.vmv cmtmua.u,vTcqv.smwx.bxcx,vdncvA
fnuaixvusmuvUauy.vMf cnfaiy.vsm.vkxxfvbcafux veausvfnvfmtxvndvmyusncvnf
usxvuaupxvbmgxqvMcuvusnyvmdcma vndvmiwfnepx gafgvau?vX emc vAAva.vmp.n
nyu,vkyuvTmcpnex’.vfmtxva.vnfvau’v[fnux.v27vmf v28]qvMuvusa.vAvuycfx 
ybnfvsatvmf v.ma ,v‘Avpawxvfnuvusovaf.afymuanf.;vmf vusovhyx.uanf.vmcx
atbxcuafxfuqvAuva.vunnvbpmafvusmuvusa.vcxzxiuanfvndvtovbpmova.v yxvun
onycvafdpyxfixqv.ntxvnfxva.vkpaf vunvsa.vnefvafuxcx.u.,vmf vusmuva.
ony,vSxf.pnexq’vUsxvpmuuxcv a vfnuv.uac,vmf vAvinfuafyx ,v‘Avwfnevesmu
xfnctny.vbcndau.vsmrxvkxxfvcxmbx vybnfvbpmo.vndvusa.vismcmiuxc,vmf 
usxcxvmcxvnusxcvusxmucaimpvtmfmgxc.,vusmfwvGn !vafvPnf nfq’”

“Gnn ,”vxjipmatx vBxxpxq

“Mf vesmuvtmfmgxcvsm .uvusnyvafvtaf ,”vm.wx vTmcpnexq

“To.xpd,”v.ma v.smwx.bxcx,vhyaxupoq

“Usny!”vxjipmatx vusxvnusxc.q

“Ox.qvAv.smppvmuvnfixvpxm.xvusxvGcxxfvIycumafxvusmuva.vfnevipn.x ,vmf 
bcn yixvusovbpmo.vusxcx,vTmcpnexqvMvdncuyfxvimfv.nnfvkxvcxmbx vdcnt
.yisvrxfuycx”v[fnuxv43]q

Muvusa.vtntxfuvusxv.nyf vndvmvwxovuycfafgvafvusxvpniwvndvusxv nncvimtx
unvusxacvxmc.qvAuvem.vUmtencusvcxuycfafg,vusxovusnygsuqvUsxf,vusxv nnc
.eyfgvkmiw,vmf vusxvdagycx.vndvdnycvtxfvmbbxmcx vmuvusxvnbxfvuscx.snp 
mf vicne x vafunvusxvcnntq




 XMUSvUNvUSOvIPAXFUvNCvTAFXq

vvvv_Gn,vemf xc,vdcxxvdcntvdxmcvndvuocmfu’.vcmgx,_
vvvv_Cxtnrx vdcntvusxvunctxfu.vmf vusxvsxpp,_
vvvv_Esxcxeausvsxvtmovxjicyiamuxvusov.nypq_

vvvv--_AvUmtkycpmafx,vaaa,v3q_

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv_Gnvicn..vusxv.xm.,_
vvvv_Mf vparxveausvCaistnf vdcntvusxvcxmisvndvsxppq_
vvvv_Gn,vsaxvusxx,vsaxvusxx,vdcntvusa.v.pmygsuxcvsny.x_
vvvv_Px.uvusnyvaficxm.xvusxvfytkxcvndvusxv xm q_

vvvv--_Caismc vAAA,var,v1q_


Mpusnygsvusxvzycovsm v xia x vmgmaf.uvKmtx,vusxacvrxc aiuvsm vfnu
.emox vsa.vinyf.xp,vXpanu,vafvsa.vnbafanfvusmuvusxvbca.nfxcvem.
affnixfuvmf vusmuvusxcxvem.v.uappvmfvmrxfyxvndvx.imbxqvKyuvusa.vmrxfyx
ty.uvkxvnbxfx qvUsxvwxovenyp vyf nykux povkxvdnyf vafvfxepov a.inrxcx 
xra xfixqvFnfxvinyp vkxvbcn yix vxjixbuvusmuvndvusxvto.uxcany.vtmfvesn
em.vafvusxvismfucoveausvKmtxqvAuvtagsuvkxvusmuvsxvsm vpn.uvsa.vpadx
mta vusxvdpmtx.vndvusxvisycis,vkyuvXpanuvem.vsnbxdypvndvusxvinfucmcoq

M.vfmccmux ,vusxvkmcca.uxcvsm v.nygsuvusa.vmk.xfuveaufx..vkxdncxvusx
ucamp,vkyuveausnyuvmrmapqvFne,vsmrafgvbcniycx vmv.umovndvusxvxjxiyuanf
ndvusxv.xfuxfix,vbxf afgvbcnixx afg.vdncvmvfxevucamp,vsxvkxgmfvmf
xjsmy.uarxv.xmcisqvUsxv.xjunfvndvusxvisycisv.umux vusmuvusxv nncvunvusx
kycampvbpnuvsm vkxxfvpniwx vnfvusxvfagsuvndvusxvdacx,vmf v.nvsm vusx
dcnfuvxfucmfixvnfvusxvNp vZxecoqvUsxcxvsm vkxxfvfnvnusxcvnyuxcv nnc.q
Usxveaf ne.vsm vkxxfvunnvsagsvdncvxfucmfixvmf vtn.uv addaiypuvdncvxjauq
Sm vusxcxvkxxfvmfovnusxcvbm..mgxvemo?vUsxv.xjunfvwfxevndvfnfxqvMv.xmcis
em.vaf.uauyux vdncvusxvkn ovndvusxvta..afgvtmfqvFnfxvem.v a.inrxcx vaf
usxvismfuco,vesn.xvtmckpxvdpnncv.uappvcxtmafx vafumiuqvSxcxvusxvtmuuxc
cx.ux vdncvmv.sncuvuatxqvEsmuvusxv.xmcisafgvbmcuovdmapx vunv a.inrxc,vm
kpyf xcafgvencwtmfvkcnygsuvunvpagsuqvAfvipxmcafgvusxvcyaf.,vsxvkcnwx,
eausvmvkpnevndvsa.vbaiw,vmvtmckpxv.pmkvafunvmvsyf cx vbaxix.qvUsa.vem.
afvusxvismfixpvmf vem.vusxv.pmkvinrxcafgvusxvbm..mgxvunvusxvBcafix’.
emc cnkxqvXpanuvem.vmuvnfixvafdnctx vndvusxv a.inrxco,vmf vsxv.yiixx x 
afvwxxbafgvusxvtmuuxcvhyaxuvesapxvsxvbpmix vmv.pxxbpx..vemuisxcvmuvusx
dycusxcvxf vndvusxvbm..mgxqvUsxvcxbncuvem.v.nnfvtm xvunvXpanuvusmuv.ntx
.ucmfgxcvafsmkaux veausvUmtencusvusxvmbmcutxfu.vesxcxafvusxvbm..mgxemo
uxctafmux qvUsxvcxm.nfvndvusa.v.ucmfgxc’.v.xipy.anfvem.vfnuvmbbmcxfu;
kyuvXpanuvkximtxvdajx vafvsa.va xmvusmuvusxveaufx..vdncvKmtxvem.veausaf
cxmisqvSxvpma vsa.vbpmf.vmiinc afgpo,vmf vnfxvxrxfafgvsxvxfuxcx 
usxvCx vPanfvnc afmcovnfvImuux.v.ucxxu,vesxcxvsxvsm vkxxfvafdnctx 
usmuvUmtencusvem.vxmuafgvmvpmuxv.ybbxcqvBcx.ytafgvybnfvmv.pagsu
mihymafumfix,vXpanuvmiin.ux vsatvmf vmiixbux vsa.vafraumuanfvunv.auvmf 
 cafwqvUenvtxf,vesnvsm vipn.xpovdnppnex vsatvaf,v.xmux vusxt.xprx.vmuvm
umkpxvmuv.ntxv a.umfixv acxiupovkxsaf vsatq

Usxvkmcca.uxc.vsm vkxxfvumpwafgvdncv.ntxvuatxvnfvunefvmf v.umux
unbai.,vmf vUmtencusvsm vfxmcpovdafa.sx vsa.vcxbm.u,vesxfvXpanu
.y  xfpov cnbbx vusxacv a.iy..anfvnrxcvmvpmuxvcagncny.vxfmiutxfuvnd
Bmcpamtxfu,vmf v.ma :

“Esnva.vusxvtmfvesnvparx.veausvonyvafvusxvBcafix’.vEmc cnkx?”

Advmviniwx vba.unpvsm vkxxfvbcx.xfux vmuvusxvsxm vndvUmtencusvkovusa.
tmfvesnv.muvnbbn.auxvsatvmicn..vusxvfmccnevumkpx,vauvenyp vsmrxvicxmux 
afvsa.vtaf vpauupx,vadvmfo,vtncxvinttnuanfqvSxvpn.uvsa.vgcm.bvnfvsa.
wfadxvmf vdncwvmf vgmlx vdajx povmuvsa.vdxppnevkmcca.uxcqvUsxvpmuuxc’.
dcmtxvem.vznggpx vkovmvpnevxjbpn.anfvndv.mua.dmiuanfvesaisv.nyf x vpawx
“Sys!”

Sxvcxuycfx vUmtencus’.vgmlx,vmf vm.wx :v“Expp?”

“Bmc nfvtx,”v.ma vUmtencus,v“Avdmapx vunvsxmcvonycvcxtmcwvncvhyx.uanfq
Avzy.uvfnuaix vusxv ywxvndvX..xjv carxvkovafvsa.vatbncux vimccamgxq
Smcwvusxvicax.vonyvfnevsxmcvmcxvdcntvencwafgtxfviyc.afgvusxvbmucnfmgx
ndvdncxagfvtmfydmiuycxc.q”

“Mcxvonyv.ycxvauvem.vfnuvtovhyx.uanfvusmuv a.infixcux vony?”vm.wx 
Xpanu,veausvmv.tapxq

“Onyvmcxvmty.afg,”vcxuycfx vUmtencusqv“ nvonyvfnuvfnuaixvusxvnbxfv nnc
kxsaf vony?vPnnw,vmf vonyveappv.xxvusxvpafwvpagsu.vkncfxvmknrxvusx
bm..afgvimccamgxq”

“Usmuva.vndvfnvatbncumfix,”vcx.bnf x vXpanuqv“Usxcxva.vpauupxvfxx vun
m.wvmgmafvesnva.veausvusxxvmuvusxvemc cnkx,vdncvusovdmixv.sne.vusmuvusx
.ykzxiuva.vndvtyisvinfixcfq”

“Usxcxva.vfnvnfxveausvtxvusxcxvxjixbuvnfvniim.anf.vesxfvdcaxf .v cnb
af,”vmf.excx vUmtencus,vesnvsm vfnuvcxinrxcx vdcntvusxvxddxiuvnd
Xpanu’.v.umcupafgvhyx.uanfqvUsxfvsxvm.wx veausvintbn.ycx:

“Esov nvonyvm.w?”

“Smrxvonyvxrxcvsxmc vndvCaismc vKmtx?”vcxuycfx vXpanuq

“Ox.,”vmf.excx vUmtencus,vdxxpafgvm.vusnygsvusxvumkpxvexcxv.afwafg
yf xcvsa.vxpkne.,v“m.vAvsmrxvsxmc vndvsa.vpmuxvucampvafvusxvNp 
KmapxoqvAfvesmuvemova.vusmuvfmtxvinffxiux veausvusxv.ykzxiuvndvnyc
infrxc.muanf?”

“Avmtvsa.vinyf.xp,”vmf.excx vXpanuq

“Mf !--”vxzmiypmux vUmtencusq

“M.v.yisvAvmtvpnnwafgvdncvusxv.npxveaufx..vesnvimfvux.uadovunvsa.
affnixfixq”

“Dcntvusxvcxbncuvndvusxvucamp,”v.ma vUmtencus,v“Av.ybbn.xvusmuvusxvtmf
onyv.xxwva.vusxvnfxvesnvem.veausafvusxvpagsux vismfuco,vm.v.xxfvkovusx
knoveaufx..qvA.vauvfnuvtncxvusmfvbcnkmkpxvusmuvsxv a vfnuvx.imbxvdcnt
usxvkycfafgvisycis?”

“Sxv a vx.imbx,”vafuxccybux vXpanu,vmf veausvmvdmixvybnfvesaisvm
wfneafgvxjbcx..anfvem.v a.bpmox ,vsxvinfuafyx vpnnwafgvmuvUmtencusq

“Usxfvesov a vusxvbnpaixvfnuvimbuycxvsat?”vafhyacx vUmtencus,vm.vusnygs
usxvhyx.uanfvexcxvmvbn.xcq

“Sxv a vfnuvbm..vnyuvkovusxvdcnfuvxfucmfix,”v.ma vXpanuq

“Ms,vkovmveaf ne,vusxf?vNcvkovusxv nncvafunvusxvisycis-omc q”

“Fmo,”v.ma vXpanu,v“sa.vx.imbxvinyp vbn..akpovsmrxvkxxfvkov.yisvtxmf.
ndvxjau,vkyuvusxcxvem.vmfnusxcvmrxfyxvdncvdpagsuvmf vsxvy.x vauq”

“.n,”vxjipmatx vUmtencus,v“usa.va.vafuxcx.uafg;vgnvnf!”

“Fnuvm.vafuxcx.uafgvm.vusxvcxiaumpvenyp vkxvunvusxvagfncmfu,”v.ma 
Xpanu,veausvrnaixvesaisv a vfnu,vpawxvsa.vxjbmf x vfn.ucap.,vgarx
xra xfixvndvsa.v.ybxcancvbn.auanfvafvusxv a.iy..anfq

“Esmuv nvonyvtxmf?”v xtmf x vUmtencus,vaf agfmfupoq

“Avsmrxvmpcxm ovgnfxvunnvdmc,”vmf.excx vXpanuqv“TmovAvmiintbmfovonyvun
onycvpn gafg.?”

Xjixppxfuvmiuncvusnygsvsxvem.,vUmtencusvinyp vfnuvbcxrxfuvsa.vdmix
 a.bpmoafgvusxv a.infixcuanfvndvsa.vtaf qvMvbmppa vsyxv.bcxm vnrxcvsa.
dncxsxm vmf visxxw.qvAuvem.vxra xfuvunvsatvusmuvxausxcvusxvwxxbxc.vnd
usxvkyap afg,vndvesaisvsxvem.vmvuxfmfu,vsm vkxxfvgn..abafgvinfixcfafg
usxacv.y.baianf.vusmuvsxvem.vfnuvmpnfxvafvusxvismtkxcvndvusxvwafg,vnc
usxvencwtxfvmta vusxvcyaf.vndvusxvpxrxpx visycisvsm v a.inrxcx vusx
.xicxuvbm..mgxqvAfvxausxcvim.x,vem.vXpanuvumpwafgvybnfvmiuympvwfnepx gx
usmuvTmcpnexvem.veausafvusxvBcafix’.vEmc cnkx,vncvem.vsxv.xxwafg
dncv.yisvwfnepx gx?vUsxcxvem.vfnv nykuvusmuvXpanuvsm vexppvdnyf x 
.y.baianf.qvAfvusa.v.umuxvndvtaf ,vUmtencusvmf.excx :

“Onyv.movonyvsmrxvbcnixx x vunnvdmcqvAdvonyvtxmfvafvumpw,vauva.va px
unv a.byuxv.yisvm..xcuanf,vdncvusxcxva.vfnusafgvoxuvunvumpwvmknyu;vad,
nfvusxvinfucmco,vonyvcxdxcvunvusxv a.umfixvusmuvonyvsmrxvintxvdcntvonyc
sntxvunvusa.vnc afmco,vusxcxva.v.uappvfnvmf.excvfxix..mco,vdncvafvusx
pmuuxcvim.xvonyv.bxmwvucyusq”

Xpanuvcxuycfx vfnvmf.exc,vkyuvpnnwafgvnrxcvsa.v.snyp xc,vtnuanfx vun
usxvuenvtxfvesnvsm vdnppnex vsatvafvmf vexcxv.xmux vmuvmv a.umfuvumkpxq
Usxov.xxtx vnfvusxvmpxcuvdncvusa.v.agfmp,vdncvusxovattx amuxpovmcn.x
mf vimtxvunemc vsatqvUsxovexcxvmuuacx vafvusxvgmckvndvusxvbnpaix,vnc
emuistxf,vnfpovybnfvusa.vniim.anfvusxovencxv.sncuv.enc .vaf.uxm vnd
imccoafgvsmpkxc .,vmf vmvsxmrovba.unpvem.v.ucmbbx vunvusxvema.uvnd
xmisqvUmtencusv.mevusxtvmbbcnmis,vmf vmuuxtbuafgvmv.tapx,vsxvm.wx 
Xpanu:

“Esmuv nx.vusa.vtxmf?”

“Ns,vfnuvdncvusxx,vtn.uvm..ycx po,”vmf.excx vXpanuqv“Avm.wx vadvA
tagsuvgnveausvonyvunvonycvhymcuxc.qvUsxvbycbn.xva.vunvdaf vusxvtmfvesn
em.veausvKmtxvafvusxvisycisvndv.uqvNpmrxqvUsxv.xicxuvbm..mgxemovem.
 a.inrxcx vmvdxev mo.vmgn,vmf vauvsm.vkxxfvxjbpncx vunvusxvsxmrov nnc
esaisvipn.x.vau,vmf vesaisvAvsmrxvm.ixcumafx va.v acxiupovkxpnevonyc
eaf ne.qvAvmp.nvwfnevusmuvmvtmfvmf.excafgvunvKmtx’.v x.icabuanfvndvsa.
intbmfanfvnfvusmuvxrxfudypvfagsuva.vnfxvndvusxvniiybmfu.vndvusxvwafg’.
mfiaxfuvismtkxcqvExvsmrxvdmacvafdnctmuanfvm.vunvzy.uvsnevusxvincca nc.
cyfvmf vusxvcnnt.vmcxvpnimux ,vmf vinyp vbcnixx veausnyuvusxxqvOny
eappvintxveausvy.,veappvonyvfnu?”

 ycafgvusa.vcxiaumpvUmtencus’.vdmixvkximtxvusxvbaiuycxvndv x.bmac,vmf 
muvusxvipn.xvsxvxjipmatx ,v xia x po,v“Fnuvnfxv.uxb!”

“Usxfvexvgnvmpnfx,vmf v.smppvy.xvdncixvadvfxix..mcoq”

“Muvonycvbxcap,”vcx.bnf x vUmtencus,v“Av nvfnuvbcnbn.xvunvsmrxvtovsntx
cmf.miwx vnfv.yisvdcarnpny.vbcxuxjuqvMf ,vmgmaf,vonyvsmrxvfnvemccmfu
dncv.yisvbcnbn.x vnyucmgxq”

“Sxcxva.vusxv.xmcisvemccmfu,”v.ma vnfxvndvusxvnddaixc.,v a.bpmoafgvusx
ecauq

Muvusa.vxjsakauanf,vUmtencusvem.vumwxfvmkmiwqv“.n,”vsxv.ma ,vpn.afgvsa.
cxbxppxfuvdcnfu,vmf v.bxmwafgvpnexc,v“Onyvsmrxvmctx vonyc.xprx.,vsmrx
ony?vExpp,vexveappvgnq”

Usxcxvem.v.uappvmvismfixvusmuvusxv.xmcisvenyp vfnuvcxrxmpvusxvbcx.xfix
ndvTmcpnexqvUsxvipniwvtmcwx vusxvsnycvndvxpxrxfqvAuvem.vtncxvusmf
bcnkmkpxvusmuvsa.vdcaxf venyp vkxv.xiycxpov.syuvafvusxvncmunco,vusx
xja.uxfixvndvesaisvem.v.ycxpovfnuvoxuv.y.bxiux qvAfvmfovim.xvusxcxvem.
kyuvnfxvinyc.xvunvmrxcuv.y.baianf,vmf vUmtencusvmcn.xvmf vbm..x vnyu
ndvusxvnc afmcoveausvusxvuscxxvtxfqvUsxv a.umfixvkxuexxfvusxvCx vPanf
mf vusxvBcafix’.vEmc cnkxvem.v.nnfvinrxcx qvMvdxevtntxfu.vmduxc,vusxo
sm vucmrxc.x vusxvpnfgvybbxcvincca ncvndvusxvmfiaxfuvkyap afg,vmf vexcx
.umf afgvmuvusxvipn.x vxfucmfixvunvusxvwafg’.vismtkxcqvMvcnyf vmyuytf
tnnfvem.vca afgvuscnygsvusxvsxmrxf.,vmf vau.vkcagsuvpagsuvbnycx 
uscnygsvusxvfxmcveaf nevndvusxvincca ncq

Umtencusvyfpniwx vusxv nncvmf vuscxevauvnbxfqvUsxvkcm..vpmtbvyf xcvusx
 cmgnf’.vsxm v.sx vau.vcm amfixvafunvxrxcovincfxcvndvusxvafrauafgvcnntq
Usxvuscxxv.ucmfgxc.vgmlx vafvmtmlxtxfuvmuvusxvyfxjbxiux v a.bpmovnd
caisfx..vmf v.bpxf ncqvUmtencusvuscxevsa.vnbxfvsmf .vdnciakpovmgmaf.u
sa.vsxm vmf v.syuvsa.vxox.veausvusxacvbmpt.,vunvsa xvmvra.anfvusmu
dappx vsatveausv acxiuvmbbcxsxf.anfvndvxrapqvBxxpx,v.smwx.bxcxvmf 
Tmcpnexvexcxv.xmux vyf xcvusxvgcxmuvpmtbvmf vmknyuvusxvtm..arxvixfuxc
umkpx!

Usxv a.uyckx vniiybmfu.vndvusxvmbmcutxfuvsm vmca.xfvmuv.agsuvndvusx
.ucmfgxc.,vmf vgmlx vafvm.unfa.stxfuvmuvUmtencus,vesnvfnevxfuxcx vaf
m rmfixvndvusxvnusxc.qvSxv.ma vimptpo,vkyuv a.uafiupovxfnygsvdncvxrxco
nfxvunvsxmc:v“Usx.xvtxfvsmrxvdncix vusxt.xprx.vybnfvtxvmf vafunvusa.
cnntvdncvusxvbycbn.xvndvpxmcfafgvadvusxvtmfva.vsxcxvesnvxfuxcx vusx
isycisvndv.uqvNpmrxvnfvusxvfagsuvndvau.v x.ucyiuanfq”

“Mf vusxcxvsxva.,”vxjipmatx vXpanu,vbnafuafgvmuvTmcpnexq

.xrxcmpvrnaix.vgmrxvyuuxcmfixvunvinfdpaiuafgv.umuxtxfu.,v.nvusmuvauvem.
atbn..akpxvunv a.uafgya.svusxacv.yk.umfixvncvdncix;vmf vusxfvTmcpnex
m.wx :v“Mf vesmuva.vemfux vndvtx,vadvAvmtvusxvtmf?”

Umtencusvuycfx vmknyu,vmf ,vcxmisafgvusxv nnc,v.pmttx vauv.syuqvXpanu
cxgmc x vusa.vtnrxtxfuveausv.y.baianf,vmf vfnuaiafgvau,vUmtencusv.ma :
“Usa.v a.uyckmfixv.snyp vkxvinfdafx vunvipn.x vempp.q”

“Usxcxva.vunvkxvfnfx,”vcx.bnf x vXpanuq

“Mf v.nvAvbcmo,”vmf.excx vUmtencus;v“dncva.vfnuvusxvbycbn.xvndvuso
xfucmfixvmiintbpa.sx ?”

“Fnuvdyppo,”vmf.excx vXpanu,vmf vusxfvm  cx..afgvTmcpnex:v“Avty.uvsmrx
usovecauuxfvmf v.encfv.umuxtxfuvndvusxvxrxfu.vndvusxvfagsuvonyv.unn 
eausvKmtxvafvusxvismfucovndvusxvisycisq”

“Dncvesmuvbycbn.x?”v xtmf x vTmcpnexq

“Unv.mrxvmfvaffnixfuvtmfvdcntvusxvgmppne.q”

“Ndvesntv n.uvusnyv.bxmw?”

“NdvKmtx,”vmf.excx vXpanuq

“Fxrxc!”vimtxvusxvcx.bnf.xvndv.xrxcmpvrnaix.q

“Fmo,vfmo!”vxjipmatx vTmcpnex,v“advnfxvyfzy.upovmiiy.x vtmovkxv.mrx vko
.yisv.atbpxvtxmf.,vAveappvgarxvauqvA.vusa.vmpp?”

“Dncvusxvbcx.xfu,”vmf.excx vXpanuqv“Usovmdda mrauva.v.yddaiaxfuvdncvto
attx amuxvbycbn.x;vkyuvpmuxcvusnyvty.uvmbbxmcvm.vmveaufx..vybnfvmvfxe
ucampvndvKmtx,vadvusxv.mtxv.smppvkxvgcmfux q”

“Mf vdncvesmuvsm.vsxvkxxfvucax ?”vm.wx vTmcpnexq

“Dncvusxvkycgpmcovndvusxvisycisq”

“Mvdmp.xvmiiy.muanf,”vxjipmatx vTmcpnexq

“Gnn !”vcx.bnf x vXpanuq

“Mf vesnvsxcxvsm.vmyusncauovunvumwxvusxvnmusvesaisvty.uvkxvmddajx vun
usxv.umuxtxfuvndvusovbcnbn.x veaufx..?”vafhyacx vUmtencusq

“Usmuva.vmvtmuuxcvxm.apovmuuxf x vun,”vmf.excx vXpanuqv“Mvzy.uaixva.
fnuvdmcv a.umfuqvExvimfvmuuxf vkxdncxvsat;vncvadvonyvbcxdxc,v.xf vnfx
ndvonycvdcaxf .vdncvsatqvSxcxva.vusxv.umuxtxfuq”

Uscneafgvkmiwvsa.vsxmrovipnmwveausvusx.xvenc .,vusxvkmcca.uxcv cxevdcnt
sa.vbniwxuvmvesauxvcnppqvSxvusxfvuscy.uvsa.vgpnrx.vyf xcvsa.vkxpu,vmf 
.bcxm vnyuvusxvbmbxcvybnfvusxvumkpxq

“Smrxvonyvmvhyappvmf vafwvsxcx?”vsxvm.wx q

“Avsmrx,”vmf.excx vUmtencus,v“kyuvesmuva.vusxvismcmiuxcvndvusa.vecauuxf
.umuxtxfu?”

“.xxvdncvuso.xpd;vmf vony,”vsxvinfuafyx ,v acxiuafgvsa.vxox.vybnf
Bxxpx,v“imfvonyvfnuvgnvunvusxvzy.uaixvmuvusxvincfxcvndvusa.v.ucxxuvmf 
usxvBnypuco,vmf vkcafgvsatvsxcx,vncvadvsxvcxdy.x.vunv.uacvmkcnm vmu
usa.vpmuxvsnyc,v xtmf vusmuvsxvpagsuvsa.vimf pxvmf vemauvnycvbcx.xfix?”

“Onyvmcxvafvsm.ux,”vcxtmcwx vUmtencus,v“mf vfnuvmuvmppv adda xfuvaf
tmwafgvcxhyx.u.vndv.ucmfgxc.q”

“Usxcxva.vniim.anfvdncvauq”

“Exvixcumafpovbcxdxcvusxvzy.uaixvunvmuuxf vsxcx,”v.ma vBxxpx,v“kyuveso
fnuv.xf vnfxvndvusx.xvemuistxf?”

“Usxovtmovfnuvkxvm.vbxc.ym.arxvm.vmvtmfvndv agfadax vkxmcafg,”vcxuycfx 
Xpanu,vkneafgv.pagsupoq

“Expp,vBxxpx,”v.ma vUmtencus,v“mvenc veausvonyq”

Sxv cxevsatvmf v.smwx.bxcxvafunvusxv a.umfuvmpinrxq

“A.vusxv.auymuanfv.xcany.?”vm.wx vBxxpxq

“Fnuv.nvdmcvm.vattx amuxvcx.ypu.vmcxvinfixcfx ,vyfpx..vusxvzy.uaix
wfne.vmf vcxingfalx.vTmcpnexqvAuva.vxra xfuvusmuvXpanuvfxrxcv.mevsat
kxdncx,vkyuvusafw.vsxvdapp.vKmtx’.v x.icabuanfvndvusxvtmfvesnvem.veaus
satvafv.uqvNpmrxqvMppvusmuvsxvimfv xtmf vfneva.vmfvmdda mrauqvUsxovsmrx
fnvbnexcvunvumwxvsatvafunviy.un oq”

“Yfpx..vkovyfpmedypvdncix,”v.yggx.ux vBxxpxq

“Ucyx,”vmf.excx vUmtencus,v“kyuvusxv mfgxcvpax.vafvusxvdyuycxqvUsx
nc xc,vybnfvXpanu’.vtnuanfvdncvmvfxevucamp,vtmovkxvtm xvun-tnccne,
mf vTmcpnexvenyp vkxv xumafx vm.vmveaufx..qvDycusxcvinfixmptxfuvsxcx,
xjixbuvdncvusxvfagsu,va.vsnbxpx..qvUsxcxva.vfnv.mdxuovdncvsatvaf
Pnf nfqvSxvty.uvpxmrxvdncvusxvinfuafxfuvkxdncxvuexfuo-dnycvsnyc.vsmrx
bm..x vnrxcvsa.vsxm q”

“Mf vfne,vesmu?”vm.wx vBxxpxq

“Usxcxva.vfnvniim.anfvdncvxausxcvndvonyvcxtmafafgvsxcx,vmf vonyvty.u
pxmrxvm.vusnygsvafvmf.excvunvXpanu’.vcxhyx.uvunvimppvusxvzy.uaix,vesnt
exv nvfnuvemfuvsxcxqvSa.vbcx.xfixvtagsuvkxvdmumpqvAdvonyv nvfnuv xbmcu
nfvusa.vbcxuxf.x,vmvemuistmfvtmovkxv.xfuqvAfvusxvux any.v xpmovesais
eappvxf.yx,vAv.smppvdaf vuatxvunvnyueauvusa.vbcx.ytbuyny.vkmcca.uxc
mf vsa.vemuistxfqvCxbmacvunv.smwx.bxcx’.vhymcuxc.vmf vusxcxvmemauvnyc
intafgq”

Usxvuscxxvimtxvdncusvdcntvkxsaf vusxvbncuaxcx.q

“Expp,”vcxtmcwx vXpanu,vhyaxupo,v“esmuva.vusxvcx.ypuvndvusa.
yfimppx -dncvinfdxcxfix?”

Sa.vtmffxcvndvpnnwafgvmuvUmtencus,vtncxvusmfvsa.venc .,v.snex vusmu
usxacveaus cmempvsm vcma.x vsa.v.y.baianf.q

“Bxxpxveappvgnvdncvusxvzy.uaix,”v.ma vUmtencusq

“Mf vAveausvsat,”vinfuafyx v.smwx.bxcxq

“.n,”v.ma vXpanu,v“Avsmrxvfnv x.acxvunvkcxmwvybvusa.vdmtapovtxxuafg;
kyuvadvonyveappvsmrxvauvusmuvemo,vauva.vexppq”

“Ta fagsuva.vfnuvmfvxmcpovsnycvdncv xbmcuycx,”v.ma vnfxvndvusxvgcnybq

Usxvuenvtxfvsm v xbmcux vesxfvUmtencusvkxgmfvcxm afgvmpny vdncvsa.vnef
mf vTmcpnex’.vkxfxdauvusxvbmbxcvyfcnppx vybnfvusxvumkpxqvMuvusxvsxm 
em.vusxviy.untmcovuaupxvndvinycuvmf vimy.xveausvrxfyxvdnppneafgqvUsxf
imtxvusxvbcnfnyfv“A,”veausvmvkpmfwv.bmixvdncvusxvaf.xcuanfvndvmvfmtxq
Auvem.vxra xfuvusmuvXpanuvsm vfnuvbpmix vmfovdmausvafvKmtx’.v.umuxtxfu
usmuvusa.vtmfvem.vIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexqvIm.x.vndvta.umwxfva xfuauovexcx
fnuvndvafdcxhyxfuvniiyccxfix,vmf vusa.vem.vxra xfupovnfx;vkyuvesmuxrxc
sa.vfmtxvtagsuvkx,vsxvem.vfnfxvusxvpx..vusxveaufx..vybnfvesntvKmtx’.
imy.xv xbxf x qv.yisvsm vkxxfvusxvcxm.nfafgvndvusxvkmcca.uxcvesapx
 cmeafgvusxvbmbxcqvUmtencusvdafa.sx vsa.vcxm afgqvAuvem.vusxvucyx
cxiaumpvndvusxvfagsu’.vxrxfu.,vkyuvUmtencusv.snnwvsa.vsxm vatbcx..arxpo
mf vusxfvm.wx :

“Ybnfvusa.vonyvsnbxvdncvmvcx-ucamp?”

“Tn.uvm..ycx po,”vmf.excx vXpanuq

“Mf vybnfv.yisvucamp,vxjbxiuvtovfnkpxvdcaxf vunvmbbxmc?”

“Snevxp.xvinyp vauvkxvmiintbpa.sx ?”vmf.excx vusxvnusxc,vafvmtmlxtxfu,
mf vusxf,vm.vusnygsvmv.xx vndvdxmcvsm vgcnefvafunvgagmfuaivdnctveausaf
sat,vsxv.ucmagsuxfx vsat.xpdvybvmf v.ma ,v.xfuxfuany.po:v“Mf vA
 xtmf vusovm..ycmfixvndvsa.vbcx.xfixvesxfvcxhyacx --usovm..ycmfixvm.vm
pmeoxc--ncvsxvty.uvkxvumwxfvafunviy.un oq”

“Usovipn.afgvuscxmuva.vmvtniwxcovndvpme,”v.ma vUmtencusvhyaxupoqv“Eaus
fxausxcvusxvemccmfuvdncvsa.v.xalycx,vfncvusxvzy.uadamkpxvgcnyf vndvm
icatxvinttauux vafvusxvbcx.xfixvndvmfvnddaixc,vexvtmovpmygsvmuvuso
bcnbn.x vmiuanfq”

“Pmygsvncvfnu,”v.ma vXpanu,vafvtxm.ycx vunfx.,v“exveappvmemauvusx
intafgvndvusxvzy.uaixq”vMf vusxf,vpnnwafgvmuvTmcpnex,vsxv.y  xfpo
m.wx :v“Mf vfnevesmuva.vusovfmtx?”

“Exveappvemauvdncvusxvzy.uaix,vm.vonyv.yggx.u,”vafuxccybux vUmtencus,
mbbmcxfupovfnuvfnuaiafgvusxvhyx.uanfqvUsxfvsxvfn  x vunvTmcpnex,vesn
em.v.sneafgv.agf.vndvmgaumuanf,vmf vusxvuenvtnrx vunvusxvemppvkxonf 
esaisvpmovusxv.xicxuvncmuncoq

“Exvty.uv.ucawxvmuvnfix,”vesa.bxcx vUmtencusq

“Mox,”vtyctycx vTmcpnex,v“kyuvsne?”

“Usxvncmuncova.vusafxvnfpovcxdygxvdncvusxvbcx.xfuqvPmuxcvAveappvuxppvto
bpmf.q”

“Usxvafw!”v xtmf x vXpanu,vafvpny vrnaix,vmf vusxfvmptn.uvafmy akpovsx
.bnwxvunvnfxvndvusxvemuistxf:v“Gymc vusxv.umac.qv.umf vusxcxvfxmcvusx
cmapafgq”

Umtencusvesa.bxcx vnfixvtncxvafvusxvxmcvndvsa.vdcaxf :v“Cxtmafvsxcx
cxm ovunvmiuq”

Muvusxv.mtxvuatxvsxvbnafux vunvusxv.bnuvesxcx,vkxsaf vusxvumbx.uco,vusx
xfucmfixvunvusxvncmuncovem.vinfixmpx qvTmcpnexvfn  x vsa.vsxm ,vmf 
usxfvUmtencusvicn..x vusxvcnntvunvmv x.wvafvusxvmpinrxqvSxvcxuycfx 
eausvmfvafwsncfqvSa.vbpmfvndvmiuanfvsm vkxxfvipxmcpovinfixarx vmf vsx
em.vmknyuvunvmuuxtbuvau.vxjxiyuanfqvSxvmf vsa.vintbmfanfvinyp vsmrx
m nbux vranpxfuvtxmf.,vdncveausvusxacv.enc .vusxovexcxvtncxvusmfvm
tmuisvdncvXpanuvmf vusxvemuistxf;vkyuvafvusxvucmafvndv.yisvranpxfix,
intbpxuxvmf vaccxucaxrmkpxv a.m.uxcvtagsuvdnppneqv.yisvmuumiwvem.vfnu
unvkxvtm xvyfpx..vmppvnusxcvxddncu.vdmapx q

M.vUmtencusvsmf x vusxvafwsncfvunvXpanu,vsxv.uxbbx vybnfvmvismac
kx.a xvsatvmf vusxfvnfvusxvumkpxqvUsxvtnrxtxfuvem.v.nv.y  xfvusmuvfnfx
yf xc.unn vsa.vbycbn.x,vyfuapvsxvsm vcma.x vusxvpmtbvkn apovdcntvau.
.y.bxf x vkm.wxuqvSxvem.vmknyuvunvxjuafgya.svau.vdpmtxvkyuvkxdncxvau
inyp vkxvmiintbpa.sx ,vXpanu,vesnvem.v.uappv.auuafgvkx.a xvusxvumkpx,
gcmkkx veausvknusvmct.vusxvpxg.vesaisv.unn vkxdncxvsatqvUsxvmuuxtbuvun
xjuafgya.svusxvdpmtxvdmapx ;vUmtencus,veausvmvico,vpn.uvsa.vkmpmfix,
mf vm.vsxvdxppvsxvuscxevsa.vkpmlafgvkyc xfvunemc vusxvxtbuovdacx-bpmixq
Mvemrxvndvkpmiwv.tnwxvdnppnex vau.vinyc.xvmicn..vusxvcnntvmf 
usxf-- mcwfx..qvFnuvmv.bmcwvndvpagsuv.snfxvmfoesxcxqvTmcpnexvenyp vdmaf
smrxvemaux vunvpxmcfvusxviyptafmuanfvndvusxvucmafvndvmiuanfvusy.v.xuvaf
tnuanf,vkyuvsxvwfxevusmuvxrxcovtnrxvsm vkxxfvdncvsa.vkxfxdau;vmf v.n,
m.v mcwfx..vxfrxpnbx vsat,vsxv cxevkmiwvusxvumbx.ucovmf vbcx..x vybnf
mvtyppanfvndvusxvemppx veaf neqvAuvem.vfnuvusxvnfxvsxvemfux qvSxvdxpu
mgmafvmf vcmfvsa.vsmf .vmicn..vusxvxfuacxv.ycdmixqvMs!vsxvsm vau,vmf 
usxvemppvtnrx ;vkyuvmuvusmuvaf.umfu,vesaisvem.vkyuvusxv.xinf vaf.umfu
afvusxvdpagsuvndvuatxv.afixv mcwfx..vsm v x.ixf x ,vmv.enc vndvpagsu
dpm.sx vybemc vdcntvusxvisatfxo-bpmix,vmf vaf.umfumfxny.povmvranpxfu
xjbpn.anfv.snnwvusxvcnntqvDpmtafgvnapv.snuvnyuemc vdcntvusxvisatfxovdnc
mv a.umfixvndvuexfuovdxxuqvAuvcmfvpawxv.fmwx.veausvdpm.safgvmf v mcuafg
unfgyx.vmpnfgvxrxcovxjbn.x v.xmtvndvusxvmfiaxfuvdpnncqvAuviycpx vmcnyf 
usxv.bpxf a v.ybbncu.vndvusxvtmfuxpqvAuvdm.uxfx vau.v x.ucnoafgvdmfg.
afvusxv.imuuxcx vbaxix.vndvncaxfumpvimcbxu,vmf vicmepx vnrxcvmf vdx 
ybnfvusxvyfinf.iany.vdnctvndvusxvtmfvesnvsm vtxuvsa.v xmusvafvsa.
xddncu.vunv.mrxvsa.vdcaxf qvUsxcxvsxvpmovesxcxvsxvsm vdmppxfveausvdmix
ybemc vnfvusxvsxmcus-.unfxqvSnevusxvkpmiwv.tnwxvem.vca.afgvdcntvusx
kycfafgvnap!vXrxcousafgvafmfatmuxvmf vyfinf.iany.veausafvusxvwafg’.
ismtkxc,vfmo,veausafvusxvmfiaxfuvbmpmix,vem.v nntx q

Xpanuvmf vusxvemuistmfvdpx vuscnygsvusxvnbxfv nncvmf vusxv.tnwx
dnppnex vusxt,vm.vusnygsvusy.v.xxafgvmfvxjauvdncvau.vaficxm.afgvrnpytxq
Tmcpnex,v.uappvsnp afgvunvusxvdnp .vndvusxvumbx.uco,vesaisvsxvsm 
gcm.bx vm.vusxvxjbpn.anfv.emox vsa.vkn o,vicax vpny po,v“Umtencus,
Umtencus!”

Usxcxvem.vfnvmf.excqvSxv.umggxcx vdcntvsa.vbpmix,vcxmisx vusxvixfuxc
umkpx,viacipx vau,vmf vusxvdpmtx.vpxmbx vmuvsa.vdxxuvmf v cnrxvsat
kmiwemc qvSa.vsxxpv.ucyiwvusxvcma.x vtmckpxvndvusxvdac.uvndvusx
 x.ixf x v.uxb.vndvusxv.umacemo,vmf vusxvsxmuvdappx vsa.vfn.ucap.q
Sxvuycfx vmf ,vsa afgvsa.vdmixvafvsa.vsmf .,vgcnbx vsa.vemov nef
usxv.xicxuv.umacemo,vuscxevnbxfvau.vfmccnev nncvmf vbm..x vafunvusx
 mcwfx..q

Nfvusmuvfagsuvmv x.bnf xfuvmf v.nccnedypvtmfv xtmf x vkovpny vkpne.
m tauumfixvunvmvcnntvmuvusxvKnmc’.vSxm vesaisvnrxcpnnwx vIcnnwx vPmfx
mf vusxvisycisomc vndv.uqvTaismxpqvKyuvusxvcxgypmcvniiybmfu,vesnvem.
fnfxvpx..vusmfvGxncgxvBxxpx,vem.vfnuvusxfveausafvunvsxmcvusxv.yttnf.q
Pmux,vnfvusxvdnppneafgvtncfafg,v.nnfvmduxcvBxxpxvsm vcxmisx vsa.vcnnt,
mfnusxcvwfniw,vusa.vuatxvkovmv.ucmfgxc,v.nyf x qvAttx amuxpovusxv nnc
em.vnbxfx ,vmf vmvtmf,vesn.xvmbbmcxpvmf vsmf .vkx.bnwxvinfumiuveaus
esxccax.vmf vda.s,vsmf x vafvmv.xmpx vpxuuxcqvBxxpxvkcnwxvauvnbxfvmf 
cxm vusxvdnppneafg:

vvvv“Tov xmcvBxxpx:vUmtencus’.vmf vtovmbmcutxfu.vexcxv x.ucnox vkovdacx
vvvvpm.uvfagsu,vmf vsx,vesapxv.ucarafgvdncvtov.mdxuo,vbxca.sx vafvusx
vvvvdpmtx.qvNdvusa.vAv.smppvecauxvonyvtncxvdyppovesxfvuatxva.vmddnc x 
vvvvtx,vmf vucmrxpvsm.v.ntxesmuv a.bxppx vusxvbcx.xfuvnbbcx..arxvgpnntq
vvvvAv.nygsuvxfucmfixvmuvusov nncvpm.uvfagsuvunvmffnyfixvtovafuxfuanf
vvvvndv xbmcuafg,vkyuvfnvnfxvmf.excx vtovwfniwafgqvAvimfvfnvpnfgxcvca.w
vvvvusxv.mdxuovndvtovdxevcxtmafafgvdcaxf .,vmf ,vwfneafgvndvfnvcxdygx
vvvvyf xcvmvgnrxcftxfuvesn.xvsmf venyp vkxvcma.x vmgmaf.uvtxvadvto
vvvvxja.uxfixvexcxvwfnef,vAvpxmrxvdncvRxfaixvun-fagsuqvAv.smppvinfuafyx
vvvvecauafg,vkyu,vm.vndvpmux,vauvty.uvkxvyf xcvusxvfmtxvndv.smwx.bxcxq
vvvvRmpxqvDmy.uy.q”

Usxvcxm afgvdafa.sx ,vsxvm.wx vndvusxvtmfvesnv.uappv.unn vmuvusxv nnc:
“Esxcxva.vusxvbxc.nfvesnv.xfuvusa.?”

“NfvusxvUsmtx.;vmknmc v.sabvknyf v.xmemc q”

“Esxfv a vonyvpxmrxvsat?”

“Fnuvpnfgv.afix,vdncvAvcnex v acxiupovybvusxvcarxcvmduxcvbyuuafgvsat
mknmc vusmuv.sabvafvta .ucxmtqvEsxfvm.sncxvAvimtxv acxiupovsxcxq”

“Usmuva.vmpp,”v.ma vBxxpx,vmf vm.vusxv nncvem.vipn.x vkovusxv xbmcuafg
esxccovtmf,vsxvinfuafyx vafvmy akpxvrnaix,vkyuv.npxpovdncvsa.vnefvxmc:
“BnncvUmtencus!vmf vsnevtyisvkxuuxcvnddvmcxvusxvparafg?vBnncvTmcpnex!
kyuv.uappvusa.vismfgxva.vdncvusovkx.uvafuxcx.u.qvUsovZxevndvTmpumva.
.ucnfg,vkyuvusxvicy xfx..vndv xumapvmca.x.vdcntvyfdmtapamcauoveausvusx
.ixfx.vesxcxvauva.vpma qvUsxvdacxvkycfafgveausafvusxx,vNvfnkpxvdcaxf 
mf vdxppnev cmtmua.u,vty.uvkpmlxvipxmcxcvmf vkcagsuxcvdcntvfxevdyxpvfne
unvkxvdycfa.sx vusxxqvKmcmkkm.va.vgcxmu,vkyuvmvgcxmuxcvZxeveappvmca.x
dcntvnyuvusovtx aumuanf.vafvusxvIauovndvusxv.xmqvUsa.va.vusxvpmfgymgx
ndvbcnbsxioq”




USXvCA XvUNvUOKYCFq

vvvv--“_Mf vesxcxv a .uvtxxuvsat?_
vvvvvv_Ybnfvtafxvnefvdcxxsnp veausafvdncuovdxxuvndvusxvgmppne.,
vvvvvvvvvvinffafgvsa.vfxiwvrxc.xq_”

vvvv--_ZxevndvTmpumq_

vvvv--“_Esnv nusv(Uatx)vgmppnbveausmp?_
vvvv_Eausvmvusaxdvunvusxvgmppne.;vdncvusnygsvsxvgnxusvm.v.ndupo
vvvvvvvvm.vdnnuvimfvdmpp,vsxvusafw.vsat.xpdvunnv.nnfvusxcxq_”

vvvv--_M.vOnyvPawxvAuq_


Muvusxvsny.xvndvusxv.sxcaddvafv xbudnc ,vMffxvemaux vtmfovpnfgv mo.
dncvKmtxvunvmbbxmcveausvsxcvdmusxcqvFnvfxe.vndvKmtx’.vmccx.uvcxmisx 
sxcvxmc.,vmf vfnvmf.excvimtxvunvsxcvtx..mgxvunvTmcpnexqvMuvpxfgusvmf
nbbncuyfauovmcn.xvunv.xf vmfnusxcvtx..xfgxcvunvImfuxckyco,vusa.vuatx
kovfnviaciyauny.vcnyux;vkyu,v x.bauxvau.v xparxco,vTmfyxpvIcn..dnc 
 a vfnuvmbbxmcvunv.xiycxvsxcvpakxcmuanfqvUsxvea.sx -dncvcxinfiapamuanf
kxuexxfvdmusxcvmf v mygsuxcv a vfnuvumwxvbpmixvyfuapvtmfovtnfus.
pmuxc;vkyuvkxdncxvusxvtnfusvndvZyfxvsm vbm..x ,vusxvma vesaisvMffxvsm 
.nygsuvdcntvusn.xvfxmcx.uvunvsxcvuscnygsvkpnn vmf vdmtapovuax.,vimtx
afvusxvbxc.nfvndvmvtma vafvusxvsny.xvndvusxv.sxcaddqvUsa.vtma vsm 
kxxfv xbyualx vunvmuuxf vybnfvusxvdmacvbca.nfxcqvM.vtagsuvsmrxvkxxf
xjbxiux v.sxvem.vxm.apovenfvnrxc,vmf vnfvmv mcwvfagsuvmfvx.imbxvem.
xddxiux vuscnygsvyfknpux v nnc.,vmf vmvknmuvesaisvpmovcxm ovnfvusx
Usmtx.qvUsxvtma vsm vxfpa.ux vusxv.xcraix.vndvmvpm vesnvenyp vsmrx
icn..x vusxv.xmvmuvsxcvka  afg,vmf vkovsatvusxovexcxvinfrxox vybvusx
carxcvunvPnf nf,vesxcx,vafvmvhymcuxcvmuv.ntxv a.umfixvdcntvsxcvdnctxc
sntxveausvsxcvmyfu,vmf vafvagfncmfixvndvesmuvem.vucmf.bacafgveausvKmtx
mf vTmcpnex,vexvty.uvpxmrxvsxcvmf vcxuycfvunvusn.xvismcmiuxc.vesnvsm 
kxintxvafrnprx vafvmvexkvdcntvesaisvusxcxvem.vfnvbn..akpxvxjucaimuanfq

UsxvknovBxfixvsm vkxxfv.xuvmuvpakxcuoqvSa.vintbmfanf.,vBxfunvmf vKm po,
sm v.yddxcx vimbaumpvbyfa.stxfuqvKmtxvenyp vsmrxvattx amuxpovtxuvusx
.mtxvdmux,vkyuvmfvxjucmvxddncuvem.vtm xvafvsa.vkxsmpdq

Xpanu’.vmuuxtbu.vunvpxmcfv.ntxusafgvndvUmtencus,vmf vndvsa.
intbmfanfvesn.xvfmtxvem.v.uappvyfwfnef,vbcnrx vdcyaupx..qvEausvusxac
 a.mbbxmcmfix,vmppvsnbxvndvmvfxevucampvdncvKmtxvem.vxjuafgya.sx qvKyu
mvecauvndvxccncvem.vumwxf,vmf vusxvim.x,vmduxcv.eafgafgvkmiwvmf vdncus
kxuexxfvusxvinycu.,vem.vdafmppov xuxctafx vm rxc.xpovunvusxvmbbxppmfuq
Kmtxvem.vcx.xfuxfix ,vmf vusxv movdajx vem.v xixtkxcv6us,v1594qvAuvsm 
muvpxfgusv mefx vafvusxv.ucxxu.vndvPnf nfq

Kmtxv.mevusxvtncfafgvnfpovuscnygsvkmc.vfxrxcvgap x vkov.yfpagsu,vmf 
usa.vem.vusxvpm.uv mokcxmwvsxvenyp vxrxcveaufx..qvAuvsm vfnuvmcny.x 
satvdcntv.pxxb,vdncvsxvsm vempwx vusxvixppvdncvxagsuxxfvsnyc.veausnyu
mfvafuxcta..anfvndvcx.u,vxjixbuvm.vsxvsm vbmy.x vdncvmvkauxvmuvusx
kcxm vncvdncvmv.emppnevndvemuxcvsmf x vafvkovusxvuycfwxoqvFnv xmus
emuisvsm vkxxfvafvusxvincca nc;vdncvbca.nfxc.vmemauafgvxjxiyuanfvaf
usn.xv mo.vexcxvunnvfytxcny.vunvinttmf vmfovbmcuaiypmcvmuuxfuanfqvUsy.
sa.vtx aumuanf.vsm vkxxfvyf a.uyckx ,vxjixbuvkovusxvsnycpovbm..afg
kovusxvgymc ,vesn.xvdnnu.uxb.vnfpov arxcux vsa.vusnygsu.vndvusx
mbbcnmisafgvpm.uvsnyc,vunvusxvtntxfumcovmbbcxsxf.anfvusmuvauvem.vmu
smf qvMuv.yisvuatx.vsxvenyp vbmy.xvafvsa.vempw;vgpmfixvmuvusxveaf nevun
.xxvadvusxvfagsuvsm vbm..x ,vmf vdmapafgvunvcxingfalxvmfov addxcxfix
kxuexxfvusxvgpnntveausafvmf vusxvgpnntveausnyuvusxvkmc.,venyp vkcy.s
usxv.y  xfvkxm .vndvbxc.bacmuanfvdcntvsa.vkcnevmf vmemauvusxv oafgvmemo
ndvusxv a.uyckafgvdnnu.uxb.q

Mta vmppvusxvusnygsu.vndvusxvintafgvnc xmp,vusxcxvem.vnfxvinf.npmuanf
usmuvcxtmafx qvAuvem.vafvusxvtn xvndvsa.vbcx.icakx v xmusqvUsxvraiuat.,
ndvesn.xvyfuatxpovdmux.vsxvsm vkxxfvusxvbcatxv.bcafg,vsm vtxuv xmusvaf
kauuxcvmgnfovmuvusxv.umwx;vsxvem.vunvkxvsyfgqvEsapxvsxvsm vfnuvgpnmux 
nrxcvusxvuncuycx.vndvusxvinf xtfx vdcxx-usafwxc.,vsxvsm v xxtx vusx.x
uncuycx.vtxcaux ,vmf ,vm.vmvpmuxveaufx..vndvusxvmgnfax.vndvtmcuoc.,vsx
sm vmuvuatx.vdmacpov.tapx vmuvsa.vnefv.xfuxfixq

Usxcxvem.vnfxvtmfvmta vusxv xf.xvicne ,vuscnfgafgvusxvdcnfuvndvFxegmux
nfvusmuvtncfafg,vesnvemaux veausv.ntxusafgvtncxvusmfvrypgmcviycan.auo
unv.xxvusxvinf xtfx vdxpnfvintxvdncusqvMuvmfvxmcpovsnyc,vusa.vtmf
sm vtnyfux vusxv.unfxvkpniwvesaisv.unn vnfvusxvx gxvndvusxv.ucxxu
 acxiupovkxdncxvusxvgmux.vndvusxvbca.nf;vmf vfxausxcvusxvuscxmu.vnd
usxvmbbcnmisafgv.unct,vfncvau.vdycany.vbcx.xfixvsm v carxfvsatvyf xc
.sxpuxcqvYf xcvusxvpara vinpncx vipny .,vesaisv.uappvnk.iycx vusx
.wovmduxcvusxvbm..afgvndvusxvuxtbx.u,vsxvtmafumafx vsa.vbn.auanfvnd
rmfumgxqvAuvgmrxvsatvmvinttmf afgvraxevnfvmppv.a x.,vmf vpawxea.xvtm x
satvmvinf.baiyny.vdagycxqvUsxvuytkcapvkxmcafgvKmtxvenyp vbm..vipn.x
kxdncxvsatqvSxvinyp vfnuvdmapvafvsa.vmiin.uvndvusxvinf xtfx vunv.xiycx
sa.vmuuxfuanf,vmf vdncvusa.vbycbn.xvsxvsxp vusa.vbn.auanfqvEsmuvem.
sa.vypuatmuxv x.agfvinyp vfnuvkxvcxm vafvusxvxjbcx..anfvndvsa.vdmix
ncvsa.v xtxmfncqvAuvtagsuvkxvusmuvsxvafuxf x vkovusxvdxcrncvndv xrnyu
yuuxcmfixvunv.ucxfgusxfvusxvucax v.nypvndvusxvtmfvxfuxcafgvusxvrmppxo
ndv.sm ne,vnc,vnfvusxvinfucmco,vunvxjsakauvunvusxvpmuuxcvmvgpnmuafg
ra.mgxvmf vsycpvmfvxjxicmuanfvafvsa.vdmixq

Esnxrxcvafvusxva pxvicne vhyx.uanfx vusxv x.agfvndvusa.vsxmrovtmfvaf
pxmusxcfv nykpxuvesnv.unn vmknrxvusxt,vcxtmafx vnfpovmv.sncuvuatx
afvagfncmfixqvUsxvsxmrovgmux.v.eyfgvnbxf,vmf vuscxxvtxfvdpnyca.safg
smpkxc .vipxmcx vusxvemovdncvmvsnc.xvmf vnbxfvimcuqvKxsaf vusxvimcu
imtxvdnycvmctx vca xc.,vmf vusxvsmfgtmfvafvcnygsvim..niwvmf vkpmiw
smuqvUsxvimcuvkncxvuenvtxfqvNfxvem.vusxv carxcqvUsxvnusxcvem.vmvtmf
afvtmfmipx.vesnv.unn vxcxiuvdncvusxvtntxfuvesapxvusxvesxxp.vcyfvnrxc
usxv.tnnusvbmrxtxfuqvM.vxra xfixvndvaffnixfix,vsxvencxvmvesauxviniwm x
afvsa.vsmu,vmf vmfvxjbcx..anfvndvdncix vcx.agfmuanfvmbbxmcx vnfvsa.
dmixqvUsxvicne vem.v.apxfuvdncvmvtntxfu,vmf vusxfvisxxcx vsatvm.vusxo
fnuaix vsa.vxcxiuvbn.uycxvmf vusxvesauxviniwm xq

Usxvsnc.xvsm vkxxfvcxafx vafvmuvusxvx gxvndvusxv.ucxxuvdncvmvtntxfu
esapxvusxvicne vem.vkxafgvuscy.uvkmiwvkovusxvgymc qvKmtxv.apxfix 
usxvisxxcafgvkovsa.vxddncuvunvkxvsxmc vmknrxvusa.v xtnf.ucmuanfqvSx
cxbxmux vsa.venc .vueaix,vmf vusxfvusxovsxmc vsatq

“Avsmrxvinttauux vfnvicatx,”vsxvicax ,v“Tov xmusveappvkxvmvzy aiamp
tyc xcq”

Infucmcovunvsa.vxjbxiumuanf.,vusxvenc .v a vfnuvcxrarxvusxvmbbpmy.x
usmuvsm vbcxix x vusxtqvUsa.vem.vniim.anfx vkovmfnusxcvrnaixvusmuvcmfg
nyuvafvipxmcvmf vpny xcvmiixfu.:

“Usxv ngvpax.qvSxv.snyp vkxv.ucmfgpx vkxdncxvsxvcxmisx.vusxvgmppne.qvM
bykpaivmiiy.xc!vmvbykpaivafdnctxc!”

Kmtxvuycfx vsa.vsxm ,vmf vnfvsa.vxpxrmux vbxcisvsxv.mevGorx.,vusx
xj-inf.umkpxqvUsxvicne v.mevsatvunn,vmf vafvau.vdaiwpxfx..visxxcx 
satvmf vusxfvsnnux vmf vuscxevty vmf v.unfx.vmuvKmtxqvUsxvpmuuxcvem.
wfniwx vafunvmv.auuafgvbn.uycxvkovusxvta..apx.vesxcxvsxvcxtmafx 
ucxtkpafgvdcntvdxmcvndvmvtncxvranpxfuvm..mypuvkxafgvtm xqvYbvunvusmu
tntxfuvsxvsm vbcmox vdncv xmusvafvmfovdnct,vxjixbuvmuvusxvsmf .vndvusx
smfgtmf;vkyuvafvusxv.y  xfvmf vyfxjbxiux vbcx.xfixvndvtnkvranpxfix,
daxcixvmf v.ucnfgvxfnygsvunvicy.svnyuvmppvpadx,vsxvdncgnuvusxvafixfuarx
ndvsa.vbcmoxc.q

Usxv carxc’.vsmuvsm vkxxfvwfniwx vdcntvsa.vsxm ,vmf vusa.vmfgxcx vsat
.nvusmuvsxv.encxvpny povmf vimppx vrapxvfmtx.vxrxfvmuvusxvtmfvesn
baiwx vusxvdmppxfvsmuvdcntvusxvgcnyf vmf vuscxevauvafunvusxvimcuqvMu
usxv.mtxvuatxvsxv.xfuvusxvpnfgvpm.svndvsa.vesabvicmiwafgvmf v.tmcuafg
afunvusxvdmix.vndvusxvdcnfuvcnevndvusxvicne qvUsxovdxppvkmiw,vzxxcafg
muvsatq

“Wappvsat,vunn!”vusxovoxppx q

“Mvdauvtmuxvdncvusxvdxpnf!”

“Sxvsmf px.vsa.vcxaf.vpawxvUokycfvsxtb!”

“Mfvmbbcxfuaixvdncvusxvsmfgtmf!”

“Umwxvusmu!”

“Mf vusmu!”

Mfnusxcvrnppxovndv.unfx.vmf vty vdnppnex qvKmtxvpmovdpmuvafvusxvimcu
mf vx.imbx vafzyco,vkyuvusxv carxcvdxppvkmiwv.uyffx ,veausvusxvcxaf.vaf
sa.vfxcrxpx..vsmf .qvUsxfvusxcxvem.vmv a.ismcgxvndvdacxmct.qvUsxvgymc .
sm vpxrxpx vusxacvkpyf xcky..x.vmf vbydd.vndv.tnwxviycpx vybemc .vdcnt
usxvea xvtnyus.qvUsxvtnkvuycfx vmf vkcnwxvmemovbcxiabaumuxpovnfvmpp
.a x.,vpxmrafgvuenvesnvsm vdmppxfveausvusxvcxbncuvndvusxvdacxmct.,vmf 
fnevpmovnyu.ucxuisx vnfvusxv.unfxvbmrxtxfuqvNfxvndvusxtvem.vGorx.qvSa.
pmuxvbcntafxfixvmf vmbbxmcmfixvm.vusxvpxm afgv.bacauvndvusxvtnkvsm 
tm xvsatvusxvtmcwvdncvtncxvusmfvnfxvndvusxvgymc .,vmf vsa.vkn ovem.
ca  px veausvkmpp.qvUsy.vem.vusxvkxgaffafgvndvusxvca xvtmcwx veaus
 xmus,vmf vusxvxf vem.vunvkxvfnvpx..vmvucmgx oq

EsapxvPnf nfvem.vyf xcvusxvcypxvndvusxvBpmfumgxfxu.,vusxvbxfmpuo
bcnfnyfix vmgmaf.uvimbaumpvnddxf xc.vem.vafdpaiux vmta vusxvxpt.vaf
.tausdaxp ;vkyuvyf xcvusxvbauxny.vxox.vndvisap cxfvdcntvusxveaf ne.
ndvusxvxficnmisafgv exppafg.vndvmvcmba povaficxm.afgvbnbypmix,vusx
xjxiyuanfxcvkyfgpx v.nvkm povafvsa.vdcxhyxfuvum.w,vusmuvxmcpovafvusx
cxagfvndvusxvUy nc.,vusxv a.umfuvkmfwvndvusxvUokycfvem.v.xpxiux vm.
mvtncxv.yaumkpxv.bnuvdncvimccoafgvusxv xmusv.xfuxfixvafunvxddxiuq
Sxcx,vdncvmvdxevoxmc.vdnppneafg,vusxv.yccnyf afgvdaxp .vcxtmafx vnbxf,
mf vfnfxvkyuvusxvinf.umfuvtnkvdcntvDmcafg nfvemc vpnnwx vybnfvusx
yf.agsupovnkzxiuvyf xcvusxv“Uokycfvucxxq”vUsa.vtnkvdnppnex vusxvimcu
ndvusxvinf xtfx vafvmppv.xm.nf.vmf vyf xcvmppv.wax.qvNfv covcnm .vau
em.vxfrxpnbx vafv y.u;vusxvty vem.vkxmuxfv nefvkovau.vyfuacafgvdxxuvaf
.unctov.xm.nf.,vmf vesapxvauvem.vintbmiuvafvkn ovybnfvpxmrafgvFxegmux
auvem.vmv.imuuxcx vbcnix..anfvafvau.vcxucxmuvdcntvUokycfq

UsxvUokycfvcnm v.umcux vmta vusaiwvipy.uxcafgvkyap afg.,vkyuv.nnf
.smwafgvau.xpdvdcxxvdcntvusx.x,vauvcmfvnf,vea xvmf vdact,vkovknc xcafg
 exppafg.,vuabbpafgvsny.x.vmf vaff.,vafunvusxvnbxfvinyfuco,vesxcxvau
.ucmggpx vmf v.xxtx vmatpx..vafvau.vbycbn.xqvKyuvusa.v.xxtafgvem.vnfpo
unvhyaxuvusxvusny.mf .vndvecxuisx.vesnvexcxvimccax vnrxcvau.v.ycdmix
nfvusxacvpm.uvca xqvDncvusxtvusxcxvexcxvuscxxvtapx.vndvsmc vucmrxp,
mf vmuvusxvxf vndvxmisvafuxctx amuxvtapx,vsnbxvinyp vwaf pxvafvusxac
kcxm.u.vusmuvusxvca xvtagsuvkxvnfpovusxvkxgaffafgvndvmvznycfxovafun
xjapxqvAfv.yttxcvusxov.mevkcnm vdaxp .vndvgcmaf;vdxpuvusxvinnpv.sm xvnd
dncx.u.;vsxmc vusxv.nfg.vndvkac .;vnc,vafvusxv xm v.xm.nfvndvusxvoxmc,
cxmbx vdcntvusxvra.anfvndvesauxvsapp.vmvuxtbncmcovcx.bauxvdcntvkcnn afg
txpmfisnpoq

Usxvicne vusmuvdnppnex vusxvimcuvkxmcafgvKmtxvem.vkna.uxcny.vunvm
 xgcxxv.yggx.uarxvndvattx amuxvranpxfixqvUsxovsm ,veausvkpmfisx 
dmix.,v.xxfvusxv xmusvtxux vnyuvunvuenvndvusxacvtxtkxc.;vmf vesapx
usa.v.ixfxvsm vdncvmvuatxvmbbmppx vmf v.apxfix vusxt,vm.vusxov cxe
memovdcntvusxvipn.xvkyap afg.vafvusxvnyuxcvemc vndvusxviauo,vusxacvapp
eappvmgmaf.uvusxvgymc vmf vau.vbca.nfxcvkximtxvtmfadx.uvuscnygsvusxac
tyctyc.vmf v xtxmfncqvUsxov a vfnuvkpmtxvusxvgymc v.nvtyisvm.vusxo
 a vusxvbca.nfxcqvUsxvgymc vsm v nfxvau.v yuo,vyf nykux po;vauvem.vm
txcxvaf.ucytxfu,vkyuvKmtxvsm vkxxfvusxvimy.xqvUsxvcx.ypuvpmovmuvsa.
 nncqvUsxv carxcvty.uvbcx..vdncemc v.bxx apo,vmf vusxvsmfgtmfvty.uvkx
yfy.ymppovxjbx auany.vadvusxvicne vem.vunvkxvbmiadax q

Kmtxvcxmpalx vusxv.auymuanf,vmf vinfucmcovunvusxvy.ympv x.acxvndvUokycf
bm..xfgxc.,vbcmox vdncvmv.bxx ovca xqvUsxcxvem.vusxvaffvndvusxvEsaux
Njvnfvmsxm qvEnyp vauvxrxcvkxvcxmisx ?vUsxvesxxp.vndvusxvimcuv.yfwv.n
 xxbvafvusxvty vusmuvauv.xxtx vm.vusnygsvmuvxrxcovomc vusxovenyp v.unb
uycfafgqvUsxvgymc vdpnyca.sx vau.vexmbnf.vmuvusxvcx.upx..vtnkvkxsaf 
au,vmf v.uappvusxvbcnix..anfvtnrx qvSxcxvem.vusxvEsauxvNjvmuvpm.u,
mf vusxcxvmuvusxvdcnfuvx gxvndvau.vea xvbncisv.unn vusxvtmfvesnvsm 
miuymppovinyfux v.xrxfvsyf cx vmf vdnycvinf xtfx vdxpnf.vca xvkovusx
EsauxvNjv ycafgvusmuvoxmcqvSxvusnygsuvusmuvsxvsm vtmcwx vusxtvnfvusx
affxcvx gxvndvusxvesauxvcmapafgvmgmaf.uvesaisvsxvem.vpxmfafg,vkyuvsx
sm vta..x vmuvpxm.uvuenv.incxv carxfvkovnfv.xrxcmpvxmcpovsnyc.vesapx
sxvem.v.pxxbafgvnddvusxvxddxiuvndv.ntxvpmux-mu-fagsuvbnumuanf.qvSx
sm vcxm.nfvunvinyfu,vdncvsxvem.vusxvumb.uxc,vmf vsxcxvusxvxjxiyuanfxc
mpemo.v.unbbx vdncvmv cafwqvAuvem.vfnuvunv.uxm ovsa.vfxcrx.,vdnc
mbbmcxfupovsxvsm vfnfxqvUsxvumb.uxcvsm vauvcxm ovesxfvusxvimcuv.unbbx q

Usxvtmfvafvusxvim..niwvmf vkpmiwvsmuvcn xvipn.xvunvusxvx gxvndvusx
cmapafgvmf vunnwvusxvgpm..vdcntvusxvumb.uxc’.vsmf qvM.vsxvcma.x vauvun
sa.vpab.,vsxvknex vafvtniwvisxxcvunvusxv.m -dmix vtmfvafvusxvuytkcapvm.
usnygsvunv.mo,v“Usa.va.vunvonycvgnn vsxmpusq”vSnexrxc,vsxv.ma vfnusafg,
xjixbuvunvusxv carxcvesntvsxvm tnfa.sx vunv carxvtncxvcmba poq

Mknyuvuscxxvtapx.vdcntvusxvex.uvemppvndvPnf nf,vnfvesmuva.vfnevNjdnc 
.ucxxu,vipn.xvmuvusxvdnnuvndvmv.tmppv xiparauo,vusxcxv.unn vmuvusx
uatxvndvnycvfmccmuarxvmv.npaumcovkyap afgvndvuenv.uncax.qvFxmcvusa.
.ucyiuycxvem.vmvipy.uxcvndvxptvucxx.,vmf vdcntvusxtvusxvbpmixvsm 
cxixarx vusxvuaupxvndv“UsxvXpt.q”vUsxvkyap afgvsm vkxxfv x.agfx vdnc
mfvaff,vkyuvusxvpnimpauovem.vafv.yisvappvdmrncvusmuvrxcovdxevniim.anf.
mcn.xvdncvau.vpmf pnc vunvexpintxvusxvintafg,vmf v.bxx vusxvbmcuafg
gyx.uqvNfxv.a xvndvusxv.uxxbvtn..x vcnndv.pnbx vunemc vusxvty  ovcnm ;
usxvnusxcv.a xvunyisx vusxvunbvndvmvpnduovknmc vdxfixqvUsa.vdxfix
.yccnyf x vusxv“ucabpxvucxxvndvUokycf,”vm.vusxvgmppne.vem.vimppx qvUsx
nkfnjany.v.ucyiuycxvesxcxnfvdxpnfax.vexcxvxjbamux vem.vafra.akpxvun
mppvucmrxpxc.vxjixbuvusn.xvintafgv nefvusxvsappvdcntvesxcxvusxvknycfx
ndvUoxvdnyf vau.v.nycix;vkyuvusxvxfipn.afgvdxfixvem.v.yisvmv.ykzxiuvnd
fnuaixvmf vafhyaco,vusmuv.ucmfgxc.,vm.vexppvm.vfxagskncafgvdmctxc.,
excxvgpm vunvbm..vhyaiwpovkovauqvUsxvuxfmfuvndvusxvXpt.,vsnexrxc,v a 
fnuv xbxf vdncvparxpasnn vybnfvusxvbcndau.vndvusxvaffvkmc,vau.vumkpx
ncvau.vkx .qvUsxvwxovunvusxvgcxmuvgmux.vndvusxvdxfixvsyfgveausaf
usxvumb-cnnt,vmf vusxcxvem.vcxrxfyxvunvusxvpmf pnc vdncvkxafgvau.
iy.un amfqvAfvusxvxfipn.ycxvexcxvcma.x v.xmu.vmf vnfv“.umux”vniim.anf.
usx.xvexcxvafv xtmf vmuvdmacvbcaix.,vmppvndvesaisvexcxvinppxiux vmf 
cxumafx vkovusxvwxxbxcqvUsa.vwxxbxcvem.vmventmf,vfaiwfmtx vTnusxcvBxuxcq

M.vy.ymp,vTnusxcvBxuxcvsm vusxvgmux.vnbxfvpnfgvkxdncxvusxvbcnix..anf
mccarx ;vmf v.n,veausnyuvmvbmy.x,vafunvusxvxfipn.ycxvbm..x vusxv.uxcf,
intbmiuvmf vtnyfux vkn o,vcxbcx.xfumuarxvndvnc xc,vmf vmduxcvauvusx
pnn.xvmf v a.nc xcpovtnkqvUsxvpmuuxcvdappx vusxv.bmixvkxuexxfvusx
ea xpov.xbmcmux vgmuxvbn.u.vm.vauvbnycx vaf,vmvkn ovndvapp-ipm vdpx.s,
ndvmppvmgx.vmf vndvknusv.xjx.,veausvkcyumpvmf vcxbyp.arxvdmix.,vmf 
my akpxvdcntvzxxc.,viyc.x.vmf vpny vpmygsuxcq

Usxvxfipn.ycxvem.vnfxvndvuscxxvmicx.veausvmvdpmuvnbxfv.bmixvafvusx
ixfuxcvmcnyf vesn.xvx gx.vcn.xvuaxc.vndv.xmu.v.pnbafgvybemc vmf 
kmiwemc vunvusxvdxfix’.vunbqvAfvusxvixfuxcvem.vmvucamfgypmcvbpmudnct,
cma.x vuexfuovdxxuvmknrxvusxvgcnyf ,vmf vsmrafgvmuvxmisvndvau.vuscxx
incfxc.vmfvybcagsuvbn.uvxmisveausvmvkxmtvxjuxf afgvsncalnfumppovdcnt
au.vunbqvKcnm v.uxb.vpx vybvunvusa.vbpmudnct,vmf vnfvauvem.vmvkxfisvmf 
mvumkpxqvNfvusxvumkpxvem.vmfvxmcusxfvzygvmf vkx.a xvauvmfvxmcusxfvknepq
Afvusxvumkpxvem.vmvKakpxqvDcntvusxvuscxxvsncalnfumpvmct.,vkpmiwvcnbx.
.y.bxf x ,vmf vxrxcovkcxxlxv.emox vusxtq

Usxvuytkcapvsm v.unbbx vmuvusxvdnnuvndvusxvkcnm v.uxb.qvAu.vdnnuknmc 
em.vpxuv nefvmf vKmtxv x.ixf x vdcntvauqvSxv.unn vusxcxveausvmvgymc 
nfvxmisv.a x,vmf vusxvicne v cmefvkmiwemc vunv.umf afgvbpmix.vnfvusx
xfiacipafgv.xmu.qvMvdxxpafgvndvexmwfx..vbxcrm x vsatvm.vsxvgpmfix 
ybemc vmuvusxvbn.u.vmf vusxacv.y.bxf x vcnbx.v.nvntafny.vndvxrap
unvsat.xpdqvSxvbmcuamppovcxinrxcx vsa.vinfucnpvesapxvusxvgymc vmf 
xjxiyuanfxcvexcxvmuuxf afgvunvusxacvsnc.x.,vmf vusxf,veausvusxt,vsx
m.ixf x vusxv.uxb.vunvusxvbpmudnctq

Dcntvusxvcma.x vbpmudnctvKmtxvinyp v.xxvmicn..vusxvunbvndvusxvgmux.
ndvusxvxfipn.ycxvunemc vPnf nfqvSxvpnnwx vmk.xfupovafvusmuv acxiuanf,
mf vmuvdac.uv.mevfnusafgvkximy.xvndvusxvuytypuvafvsa.vtaf qv.y  xfpo
usxv.ixfxv.exbuvafunvsa.vdaxp vndvinf.iany.fx..,vmf vyf xcvmv mcw
imfnbovndv.tnwxvmf vipny ,vsxv.mevusxv a.umfuviauoqvFnv.yfpagsuvpmo
ybnfvusxvtocam vndvempp.vusmuvdnctx vusxvbaiuycxqvFnvgap x v ntx,vfnc
eaf nevafvra.akpxvunexc.,vdpm.sx vunvsatvmvexpintxvncvmvemcfafgqvAf
usxvgpnnt,vauv.xxtx vmviauovndv xmusvncv.pxxb,vmf vsxvdxpuvauvunvkx
mvra.anf,vatbmpbmkpxvmf vxrmfx.ixfuqvUsxvkcnwxfv.uxxbpxvndv.uqvBmyp,
usxvicytkpafgvCntmfvempp,vusxvdcnfu.vndvdmtapamcvkyap afg.,vkcnygsuvm
cy.svndvuxf xcvtxtncax.vmf vmvdpnn vndvuxmc.qvSxvinyp vfnuvkcy.svusa.
xra xfixvndvexmwfx..vm.a x,vdncvsa.vsmf .vexcxvknyf ;vmf v.nveausvnyuxc
ra.anfvkpyccx ,vusxvaffxc,vncv.bacauymp,vkximtxvusxvcxmpqvUsxvdaxp .vnd
tncfafgvmbbxmcx ,vmf vsxvbm..x vuscnygsvusxtvm.veausvusxvcmba veafg.vnd
mfvmfgxp,vimuisafgvusxacv.ixfu.vmf vmv.exxufx..vndvpadxvpawxvusmuvwfnef
nfpovunvusxvkmcxdnnux vknovesxfvusxvgcm..va.vgcxxfvmf vusxv movbxcdxiu
mf vfnv yuax.vinfdcnfuvsatqvUsxfvusxvdacxvndvusxvbxcan vndvmtkauanf
dappx vsat,vmf vsxv.mevsa.vsntx,vusxv x.xcux vkxfisvmuvesaisvsxvnfix
pmkncx ,vusxvbmuaxfuvdmixvndvsa.veadxvmf vusxfvusxvdagycxvndvTmcpnex
m.vsxvmbbxmcx vunvsatvyf xcvusxvkpmlafgvpagsu.vndvusxvismfucoqvMs!vem.
auvsx?vOx.qv“Mf vmcxvfnuvusxvismcgx.vdmp.x?”vca.x.vusxvhyx.uanfvdcntvm
usny.mf vrnaix.q

Sxvcxingfalx.vusxtvmpp,vmf vsxvmuuxtbu.vunv.mo,v“Ox.,vmf vpxuvauvkx
.nvcxinc x !”vkyuvsxvdaf .vsat.xpdveausnyuvrnaixqvUsxcxva.vmv mcwfx..
usmuva.vfxrxcvunvkxvpadux vmknyuvsatqvSxvsm.vmvdmafuvintbcxsxf.anfvnd
usxvcxm.nf,vkyuvauvgcne.vafunvfnvrxcauoqvRxcauax.vmcxvkxonf vsat,v.nva.
usxvencp veausvmppvau.vdmp.xfx..qvUsxcxva.vmvipn.xvipnusvnrxcvsa.vdmix
esaisv.uadpx.vsatqvSxvdxxp.vkyfgpafgvdafgxc.vmknyuvsa.vfxiw,vusxfvusx
.icmbafgvndvmvcnygsv.yk.umfixvafvusxv.mtxvbpmixqvSxvatmgafx.vsxvicax.:

“Yfpnn.x!vMac,vmac!vTovGn ,v.mrxvtx!”

Kyuvafvdmiuvsxvsm v.ma vfnusafg,vmf veausvusx.xvyfyuuxcx venc .vybnf
sa.vkycfafgvpab.,vsxvdxxp.vmvuxccadaivzmcvusmuv.xxt.vmfvxjbpn.anf
afvsa.vnefvkcmafqvMppvusxvencp va.vmdpmtxqvEm.vusxcxvxrxcv.yisvmf
appytafmuanf?vKyu,vNvGn !vesmuvuscy.uvem.vusmuvuscnygsvusxvixfuxcvnd
padxvau.xpd?vUsa.va.vbmafvafvau.vbycauoqvKyu,vemau,vsnp vkyuvmvtntxfu,
Nvoxvdacx.!vAuvgcnexusv mcwvmf v mcwxcqvMfvmk.npyuxvkpmiwfx..va.
gmusxcafgveausvmv.eadufx..vafintbcxsxf.akpx;vmf vmvcnmc,vm.vtagsuovmf 
infuafyny.vm.vusxvnixmfvmuv.uxxbvsxm pmf .,vdapp.vsa.vxmc.,vaficxm.x.
mf vusxfv ax.vyuuxcpoq

Kmtxvem.vsmfgafgvyf xcvusxvUokycfvgmppne.q




DAFA.vINCNFMUvNBY.q

vvvv_Fnvknyf .,vkyuvsxmrxf,v.smppvknyf vsa.vxtbxco,_
vvvv_Esn.xvmlycx vgmux.,vxfism.x veausvsa.vfmtx,_
vvvv_.smppvtmwxvusxvTncfafgvsm.uxvsxcvgcxovybca.x_
vvvv_Unvdxx vsxcvxox.veausvsa.vxfgcmrxfvdmtxq_

vvvv--_ a n,vaq_

vvvv_Txusafw.v’ua.vbca xvxfnygsvunvkxvsa.v.nfq_
vvvv_.xxvsnevusxvtncfafgvnbx.vsxcvgnp xfvgmux.,_
vvvv_Mf vumwx.vsxcvdmcxexppvndvusxvgpncany.v.yfq_

vvvv--_Usac vBmcuvndvSxfcovRA,vaa,v1q_


Afv1597vusxvBcarovInyfiapvinttmf x vusmuvusxvbpmosny.x.vafvDafkyco
Daxp .vkxvpxrxpx vunvusxacvdnyf muanf.,vkyuvusxvinttmf vsm vfnuvkxxf
xjxiyux qvAuva.vnfxvusafgvunv xicxx,vauva.vmfnusxcvunvxfdncixqvUsx
af agfmfuv.bacauvndvcxdnctvusmuvbcxrmapx vybnfvusxvm tafa.ucmuarx
kn ovmbbxmcx vunvsmrxvxjsmy.ux vau.vbnexcveausvusxvbcniycmfixvndvusx
tmf mux,vdncvxrxfvnfvusxv.mkkmus,vusxvmffyfiamuncovucytbxu.vkxdncxvusx
Iycumafvmf vUsxmuxcvinfuafyx vunvbcnipmatvusxv mapov.umgxvbxcdnctmfixq

Usxvpm.uvucytbxuvdncvusxv movsm vkpnefvkxdncxvusxvIycumafvnfvmveafuxc
mduxcfnnfvafv1598,vmf vmvbmiwx vmy axfixvmpcxm ovdappx vau.vbauvmf 
gmppxcax.,vesxfvmv.npaumcovdnnuvucmrxpxc,vpxmrafgvusxv.sncx- auis
sagsemo,vxfuxcx vusxvfmccnevpmfxvpxm afgvunemc vusxvdaxp .qvUsxvmac
em.vinp vmf vdcn.uo,vmf vusmuvtmovsmrxvimy.x vusxvucmrxpxcvunvwxxb
usxvimbxvndvsa.vipnmwvcma.x vsagsvmcnyf vsa.vdmixqvMuvmfovcmux,vnf
.yisvmv mo,vusxcxvem.vfnusafgvafvusxvdmiuvusmuvusxvpne- cmefvsmuvmf 
sags-cma.x vimbxvpxduvra.akpxvnfpovmvbmacvndvxox.,vunvcma.xv.y.baianf
usmuvusxvtmfv x.acx vunvmrna va xfuadaimuanfq

Mvsxmrov.fnevsm vdmppxfv ycafgvusxvbcxrany.vfagsu,vkyuvmvea x,
dactpo-kxmuxfvbmusvpx vnrxcvauvmicn..vusxvdaxp .qvM.vsxvfnux vusa.
inf auanfvndvusxvemo,vsxvimpiypmux vusmuv.xrxcmpvusny.mf vbxnbpxvsm 
bcxix x vsatqvEm.vauvunvsxmcvMppxofvmuvusxvUsxmuxc,vncvKyckmgxvmu
usxvIycumaf?vSxvusnygsuvusmuvauvem.vunvsxmcvKyckmgx,vmf vbn..akpo
sa.vwfnepx gxvndvesmuvusmuvgcxmuvmiuncvem.vunvbxcdnctvdncix vusa.
infipy.anfqvUsxvbpmovndvSmtpxuvsm vmpcxm ovkxxfvbxcdnctx vmuvEsauxvSmpp
kxdncxvusxvHyxxf,vkyuvusa.vem.vunvkxvau.vdac.uvbcx.xfumuanfvkxdncxvusx
bykpaiqvUsxvbcma.xvkx.unex vybnfvauvkovusxvuaupx vdxevesnvsm vm..xtkpx 
afvusxvkmfhyxuafgvsny.xvmuvusxvbmpmixvsm vcxmisx vusxvbykpaivxmc,vmf 
au.vxddxiuvem.vsxcxv xtnf.ucmux qvAuvem.vusxvbcn.bxiuvndv.xxafgvusa.
bpmovusmuvpx vusa.vtmfvmicn..vusxvdaxp .vesaisvsxvsm vfnuvxfuxcx vdnc
.xrxcmpvoxmc.q

Advsxvsm vkxxfvmuvmppvafuxcx.ux vafvsa.v.yccnyf afg.,vsxvenyp vsmrx
fnuaix vusmuvafvusxv.sncuv.bmixvndvuatxvesaisvsm vxpmb.x v.afixvusx
pm.uv movsxvsm vbm..x vuscnygsvusxvkcxmwvafvusxvdaxp vempp,vtmfo
ismfgx.vsm vumwxfvbpmixqvUsxvcyaf.vndvusxvnp visycisvndvSnpoexpp
( xtnpa.sx vafvusxvcxagfvndvSxfcovRAAA)vsm vkxxfvcxtnrx ,vnc
mbbcnbcamux vdncvusxvempp.vndv exppafg.vmca.afgvmknrxvusxvmfiaxfu
dnyf muanf.qvTyisv.npa vgcnyf vsm vkxxfvtm xvesxcxvusxv.x gxvsm v.bcyfg
dcntv.smppnevtmc.svemuxc,vmf vsny.x.vsxcxvmf vusxcxv nuux vusxvesaux
xjbmf.xqvMfvm..xtkpovsny.xvdncvusxvenc.sabvndvKcnefa.u.v.unn veausaf
usxvkcaiwvknyf mcovemppvndvusxvdaxp .qvMpusnygsvmvpnev.ucyiuycx,vau
inrxcx vmvpmcgxvmcxmvmf vmbbxmcx vmvtxfmixvmgmaf.uvusxvbpmosny.x.q
Usx.xvusxmuxc.,vndvsxagsuvxhyarmpxfuvunvuscxxv.uncax.,vexcxvcx.bpxf xfu
eausvparxpo-inpncx vdcnfu.vmf vbmafux veaf ne.qvMv.afgpxvcx vdpmg
dpyuuxcx vmknrxvusxvunbvndvxmisqvUsxcxvsm vkxxfvfnvismfgx.vafvusxac
xjuxcanc.v.afixvusxvnk.xcrxcvpm.uv.mevusxtqvSyf cx .vndvsnc.x.,vtmfo
caispovimbmca.nfx ,vmf vnusxc.vkxmcafgvcy xv.m  px.vnfpo,v.unn vaf
gcnyb.vkxdncxvknusvsny.x.,vesapxv.sarxcafgvkno.vmf vtxfvsxp vusxtqvNfpo
mvdxevndvusxv a.tnyfux vca xc.vexcxv.umf afgvmuvusxvxfucmfix.vndvusx
usxmuxc.q

Usxvpmuxvintxcvbm..x vmcnyf vnfxvndvusx.xvgcnyb.,vmf vmuvusxvxfucmfix
ndvusxvIycumafvbcx.xfux vmvpxuuxcvunvusxv nncwxxbxc,vesn,veausnyu
kxucmoafgvsa.vafmkapauovunvcxm ,vbm..x vauvafunvmv.hymcxveaf ne,veausaf
esaisvem.vmvcnntveausvisxxcdypvdacxvmf vmvtmfvesnvkcnwxvnbxfvusxvpxuuxc
mf vcxm vau,v.moafg:

“Auva.vusxvtmfvdncvesntvmvknjvsm.vkxxfvcx.xcrx q”

“Esnva.vsx?”vm.wx vusxvnusxcq

“Usxvfnuxv.moxusvfnuq”

“.ucmfgxvusmuvmvesnpxvknjv.snyp vsmrxvkxxfvcx.xcrx vdncvnfxvbxc.nfvnf
.yisvmv mo,”vgcnepx vusxv nncwxxbxcq

“Expp,vusn.xvexcxv.smwx.bxcx’.vnc xc.,vmf vm.vsxvsnp .vtyisvndvusx
.uniwvndvusxvintbmfo,vsa.vcxhyx.uvty.uvkxvcx.bxiux qvUsxvfnuxva.v.agfx 
kovsatqvM tauvsatvunvknjv4q”

Usxvtmfvbm..x vafvmf vdnppnex vmvknovybvmveaf afgvdpagsuvndv.umac.
unvusxvpnexcvgmppxcoqvAuvem.vmv.tmppvintbmcutxfuvmuvnfxvxf vnd,vmf 
nrxcpnnwafg,vusxv.umgxqvUsxvknovyfpniwx vauv[fnuxv44]qvMpusnygsvusx
cnyf vbau,vafunvesaisvnfxvinyp vpnnwvdcntvusa.vknj,vem.vnbxfvunvusx
ipxmcv.wo,vusxvdpnncvndvusxvybbxcvgmppxcovbcnzxiux v.nvdmcvnrxcvusa.
knjvusmuvusxvpagsuvem.v atveausafvau;vmf vsxmroviycumaf.vmuvau.vdcnfu,
mpusnygsv cmefvmbmcu,vmygtxfux vau.vinf.umfuv atfx..qvUsxvknov.umcux 
unvpagsuvmvpmtbvafvmvemppvkcmiwxu,vkyuvusxvtmfv.unbbx vsatvmf v acxiux 
satvm.vsxvpxduvunvpniwvusxvdcmapv nncqvUsxcxvem.vcnntvdncvuxfvbxnbpxvaf
usxvknj,vmf vm.vusxvknovuycfx vusxvwxovybnfvsa.vuxtbncmcovbca.nfxc,vmf 
enctx vsa.vemovuscnygsvusxvbmiwx vgmppxco,vsxvenf xcx vsnevnfxvinyp vkx
.nv.xpda.svm.vunvmbbcnbcamuxvmfvxfuacxvknjvdncvnfx’.v.npxvy.xq

Daf afgvsat.xpdvmpnfx,vusxvtmfvuscxevnddvsa.vsmuvmf vipnmw;vkyu
attx amuxpovusxvisappvndvusxveafuxcv movbxfxucmux vsa.v nykpxuvmf 
sxvcxbpmix vusxv a.imc x vgmctxfu.qvUsxvafuxcrmpvafvesaisvsa.vsxm ,
inyfuxfmfixvmf v.snyp xc.vexcxvyfinrxcx vem.v.imcixpovmvtafyux;vkyuvau
em.vhyauxvpnfgvxfnygsvunvcxrxmpvusmuvsa.vkxmc vmf vsmacvexcxvdmp.x,
mf vusxv nykpxuv.nvmccmfgx vm.vunvta.cxbcx.xfuvusxvdnctvkxfxmusvauq
Smrafgv.xmux vsat.xpdv.nvm.vunvkxvnyuvndvusxvraxevndvusxvmy axfix,vsx
bxxcx vuscnygsvusxv.bmixvkxuexxfvusxvemppvmf vusxvx gxvndvnfxvndvusx
iycumaf.qvMvbpxm.x vxjbcx..anfv.snex vnfvsa.vdmixvm.vsxvfnuaix vusx
attxf.auovndvusxvmy axfixq

Usxcxvem.vfnv.umf afgvcnntvafvusxvbau,vesaisvem.v.nvipmtncny.vdncvusx
bpmovunvkxgafvusmuvusxvncisx.ucm,vafvau.vknjveausafvusxvixfuxcvempp
mknrxvusxv.umgx,vinyp v.imcixpovkxvsxmc vmknrxvusxvuytypuqvUsxvdcnfu
cnevndv.umf afgv.bxiumunc.vem.vicne x v.nvipn.xvunvusxv.umgxvusmu
usxacvisaf.vcx.ux vybnfvau;vmf vusxvbcx..vem.v.nvgcxmuvusmuv.xrxcmpvnd
usxvtncxvmiuarxvgcnyf pafg.vsm vicmepx vybvmf vpmovybnfvusxvcy.sx.vmu
usxvdxxuvndvusxvdmrncx vbncuanfvndvusxvmy axfixvesaisvniiybax vxrxco
ismacvybnfvusxvxf .vndvusxv.umgxqvUsxcxvexcxvkpmiwvsmfgafg.vybnfvmpp
usxvbn.u.vmf vusxvpnduovimfnbovmknrxvusxvknmc .vem.vndvpawxvinpnc,
af aimuafgvusmuvusxvbpmovunvkxvbcx.xfux vem.vmvucmgx oqvMv.agfvkxmcafg
usxvenc v“ xftmcw”vsyfgvipn.xvunvusxvimfnbo,vmf vem.vmfvmffnyfixtxfu
ndvusxvbpmixvesxcxvusxv.ixfx.vndvusxv cmtmvexcxvpma qvFxausxcviycumaf
fncvdnnu-pagsu.vgcmix vusxv.umgx,vkyuvusxvcy xvbmafuafgvndvmvim.upx
bmcuamppovinfixmpx vusxvkmcf-pawxvemppqvMvcma.x vbpmudnctvmuvusxvkmiw
.snex vusmuvusxcxvem.vunvkxvmvbpmoveausafvmvbpmoq

Usxvty.aivndvusxvncisx.ucmv ax vmemo,vmf vusxvgcnyf pafg.vmf 
.imddnp xc.vsxp vkcxmusqvDcmfia.invsm vumwxfvsa.vbn.u,vmf vKxcfmc n
xfuxcx qvAuv.xxtx vusmuvusxvdac.uvhyx.uanf,v“Esn’.vusxcx?”vem.vyuuxcx 
kovusxvtmfvafvKnjv4,vdncvmuvusmuvtntxfuvusxv nncvunvusxvknjvem.vkyc.u
nbxfveausvmvicm.s,vmf v.xrxcmpvbxc.nf.vby.sx vafqvUsxvgcn..-pnnwafg
tmf,vesn.xvkcnm v.snyp xc.vsm vkxxfvy.x vunvdncixvmfvxfucmfix,vem.vaf
usxvpxm qvSxvesa.bxcx v.nvusmuvusxvhyaxuvtmfvmgmaf.uvusxvcmapafgvsxmc 
sat,v“Kxgvonycvbmc nf,vkyuvauvem.vxausxcvusa.vdnciakpxvafucy.anf,vnc
usxv.exmuvndvusxvtnkvdncvy.vmf vusx.xvpm ax.,vmf vfnv.agsuvndvusxvbpmoq
Onyvimf’uvkpmtxvy.q”

Usxvtmfvunvesntvusxvenc .vexcxvm  cx..x v a. mafx vunvuycfvsa.vsxm ,
kyuv.yfwvauvpnexcveausafvsa.vcyddvmf vwxbuvsa.vxox.vnfvusxv.umgx,vkyu
auva.vfnuvpawxpovusmuvsxv.mevauvmfovtncxvusmfvsxv a vusxvafucy xc.q
Sxvwxbuvsa.vbxmix,vkyuvsa.vdmixvem.vesauxvdcntvcmgxvncvdcagsuqvSxvsm 
cxingfalx vusxv.bxmwxcvm.vKxfvZnf.nf,vmf vusxvrnaixvndvnfxvndvusxvnusxc
uenvtxfveausvsatvsm v.nyf x v.nvdmtapamcvusmuvxrxfvkxdncxvusxvgsn.u
.umpwx vmicn..vusxv.umgx,vsxvwfxevusmuvnfxvndvsa.vintbmfanf.vem.vFm.sq
Dxtafafxvrnaix.vbcnipmatx vusmuvmuvpxm.uvuenvndvusxvdmacv.xjvexcxvnd
usxvbmcuoqvUsxacvesa.bxc.vinfrxox vfnvdycusxcvafuxppagxfixvunvsatqvSx
mgmafvkximtxvmk.nckx vafvusxvbpmo,vesapxvusxvafucy xc.vunnwvbn..x..anf
ndvusxvismac.vkxsaf vsatqvUsxovusnygsuvsatvmv yppvknnc;vsxvxausxc
.snyp vsmrxv.snefvxfnygsv.bacauvunvcx.xfuvusxacvcy xvxfucmfixveaus
daxcixvenc .vncvmv cmefv.enc ;vnc,veausvcx.agfmuanfvunvusxvafxraumkpx,
smrxvtyctycx vmvexpintxvmuvpxm.uvunvusxvpm ax.qvUsy.vcmfvusxac
usnygsu.;vkyuvsxvsm vdncgnuuxfvusxv a.uyckmfixvmf vsa.v.auymuanfqvXrxf
muvusxvipn.xvndvusxvmiu,vusxvxi.um.ovndvsa.vtaf vinfuafyx vm.vsa.vxox.
.exbuvnrxcvusxvmy axfix,vmf vdcntvbpxm.x vinyfuxfmfix.vgpxmfx vusx
nbafanfvndvmvdmrncmkpxvcxixbuanfvndvusxvbpmoqvEsov a vusa.vbpxm.xvsat?

Usxvinfrxc.muanfvkxsaf vsatvimygsuvsa.vxmc.qvAuvem.vkxuexxfvZnf.nfvmf 
Fm.svmf vcmfvnfvyfafuxccybux vdncvmfvafuxcrmpqvAuvsxp vsa.vmuuxfuanfq

“Esnvbpmo.vusxvgsn.u?”

“.smwx.bxcx”v[fnuxv45]q

“’Ua.v.ma vsxvecnuxvusxvbpmoq”

“Avhyx.uanfvauq”

“Esov.n?”

“SxvwfnexusvpauupxvPmuafq”

“Exvsmrxvsxmc vfnvPmuafq”

“Ucyx;vkyuvusxv.bxxisvndvSncmuanva.v x.icabuarxvndvusxvxrxfu.vbcxix afg
Iæ.mc’.v xmusvm.v.xuvdncusvafvPyimf’.vBsmc.mpam”v[fnuxv46]q

“ nusvfnvucmf.pmuanfvndvusxvBsmc.mpamvxja.u?”v[fnuxv47]

“Ox.,vkyuvnfpovafvtmfy.icabuq”

“Bxcismfixvsxvsmusvsm vmiix..vunvusxvtmfy.icabuq”

“Usxcxva.vkyuvnfxvinbo,vmf vusmuva.vafvtovbn..x..anfq”

“Ucmf.pmux vkovuso.xpd?”

“Fnq”

“Kovesnt?”

“Tmcpnexq”

“Mf vusxv x.icabuanfvndvusxvuxfmfupx..vgcmrx.,vusxv.sxxux v xm 
gakkxcafgvafvusxv.ucxxu.vndvCntxvmf vusxv.umc.veausvucmaf.vndvdacxva.
pawxvTmcpnex’.vucmf.pmuanf?”

“Usxvnfxva.v cmefvdcntvusxvnusxc;vdncvafvTmcpnex’.vucmf.pmuanfv‘.oppm’.
gsn.uvem.v.xxfvunvempwv.afgafgv.m vncmipx.:’v‘.nyp.vhyaxuvmf vmbbxm.x 
.agsx vdcntvusxacvgcmrx.;’v‘mf vgsn.u.vxfinyfuxcx vtxf;’vmf v‘.yf co
daxcovtxuxnc.vkpmlx vafvSxmrxfq’”

“’Ua.v.ucmfgxq”

“Tn.uv.ucmfgx!”

“Mf vsnev nvonyvmiinyfuvdncv.yisvmvinafia xfix?”

“Emau;vusxvbpmovgnx.vnfq”

Usxv.xinf v.ixfxvndvMiuvAvem.vafvbcngcx..,vmf vmuvau.vipn.xvFm.s,vesn
mbbxmcx vunvkxvusxvkxuuxcvbn.ux ,v.ma :

“ a .uvxrxcvsxmcvTmcpnex’.vbpmovndvX emc vAA?”

“Ox.,voxmc.vmgnvmuvusa.vusxmuxcq”

“ n.uvusnyvcxtxtkxcvusxvismcmiuxcvndv.bxfixc?”

“Av n,”vmf.excx vZnf.nfq

“Esxcxvsxv.mo.:

vvvv‘’Ua.vfnuvmvkpmiwvinmuvmf vmvpauupxvkmf ,
vvvvvMvrxprxuvimbx vipnmwvdmix vkxdncxveausv.xcgx?’”

“Mf vesmuvndvusmu?”vafuxccybux vusxvnusxcq

“Esmu!vesovsmrxvonyvfnuvzy.uvsxmc vSmtpxuv.mo:

vvvv‘’Ua.vfnuvmpnfxvtovafwovipnmw,vgnn vtnusxc,
vvvvvFncviy.untmcov.yau.vndv.npxtfvkpmiw’?”

“Xjmtafxvmuvusovpxa.ycxvusxvxfuacxvbm..mgx.q”

“’Ua.vbpmgamca.t!”vxzmiypmux vZnf.nf,vxrxcvcxm ovunv xicovusxvencw.vnd
mfnusxcq

“Nc--”vkxgmfvFm.sq

“Smtpxuvem.vecauuxfvkovTmcpnex,”vafuxccybux vZnf.nfq

“Ucyx,”vmf.excx vFm.s,vfn  afgvsa.vsxm vxjiaux po,v“Mf vtyisvm  auanfmp
xra xfixvxja.u.vinfdactmuncovndvonycvsm.uapovgarxfv.umuxtxfu;vkyu
usa.vuatxva.vmppvunnv.sncuvunvintbmcxvusxvbcxixbu.vndvBnpnfay.veaus
.bxfixc’.v‘unv.umkvesxfvniim.anfv.xcrx.,’vncveausvusxvtx aumuanf.vnd
Kmcmkkm.;vncvunvfnuxvsnevTmcpnex’.vtxumbso.aimpvty.afg.vinfixcfafg
‘Usa.vdcmapvmf vucmf.auncovdpx.s,’v‘usxvm.bacafgvtaf ,’v‘usx
afincbncxmpv.bacau,’v‘usxvkyllafgvdxmc’vndvesmuvintx.vmduxcv xmus,vsmrx
kxxfvznafx vmf vintbmiux vafvusa.vbpmovndvSmtpxuqvFnuxvafvonycv.uy o
snev.tnnuspovusxvbnpa.sx vpafx.vndvTmcpnex’.vmiwfnepx gx vencw.vimf
kxvcyfvafvkxuexxfvusxvpafx.vndvusa.vbpmoveausnyuvusxv.pagsux.uvzmcvnc
atbmactxfu;vfnuxvsnevtmfovndvusxv.bxxisx.veaf vybveausvusxvpm.uvuen
pafx.vcsotafg;vfnuxvusxvuxf xfiovafvmppvunemc vkntkm.uvesxcxvxjix..vnd
bm..anfva.vxjbcx..x q”

Usa.vinfrxc.muanf,vesapxvauvbpxm.x vmf vmty.x vusxvpa.uxfxc,vmemwxfx 
afvsatvmvdxmcvndvfnvucadpafgvismcmiuxcqvSxvenyp vsmrxvtm xvsa.vxjau
dcntvusxvknj,vkyuvsxv mcx vfnuvmca.xvmf vbm..vkxdncxvusxvxox.vndvusn.x
kxsaf vsatqvUsxovtagsuvcxingfalxvsat,vmf v.yisvcxingfauanfvem.vun
kxvmrna x qvMiuvAAAvem.vafvbcngcx..,vmf vKyckmgx,vm.vSmtpxu,vsxp 
usxvmy axfixv.bxpp-knyf qvNbsxpam,vbpmox vkovusxvkno,vUsntm.v xmw,
ndvusxvisap cxfvndvusxvIsmbxp,vsm vmemwxfx vusxv.otbmusovndvxrxco
my aunc;vmf vafvbcma.xvmf vsnfncvndvusxvicxmuarxvgxfay.vndvusxv cmtmvmf
afxjsmy.uakpxviybvem.vdappafgvdncvusxvpab.vndvmppvsa.vpnrxc.vuscnygs
usxvintafgvixfuycax.q

Fnv.nnfxcvsm vusxvmiuvipn.x vusmfvusxvinfrxc.muanfvem.vcx.ytx vkxuexxf
usxvuenv cmtmua.u.vesnvsm vimccax vnfvusxvdnctxcv a.iy..anf:

“‘Usxvyf a.inrxcx vinyfuco,vdcntvesn.xvknycfvfnvucmrxpxcvcxuycf.,’”
esa.bxcx vFm.s,v“a.vtyisvpawxvusxvxjbcx..anfvndvTncuatxc,vesn,vybnf
infuxtbpmuanfvndv xmus,v.mo.,vafvX emc vAA:

vvvv‘ExxbvfnuvdncvTncuatxc,
vvvvvUsmuv.incf.vusxvencp ,vmf ,vm.vmvucmrxpxc,
vvvvvGnx.vunv a.inrxcvinyfucax.voxuvyfwfnefq’”

“Mfvmbuvbmcmppxpa.t,”vcxtmcwx vZnf.nf,vmf vusxfv.popovm  x ,v“Kyuvesmu
usafwvonyvndvusxvpafx.vbyuvafvusxvtnyus.vndvusxvbpmoxc.?”

“Afv.ixfxvAAvndvMiuvAA,vndvusa.vSmtpxu?”vafhyacx vFm.sq

“Ox.,vÆfxm.’vumpxvunv a nq”

“Avwfnevfnuvesmuvunvusafwvndvusxtq”

“ a vfnuvTmcpnexvkxgafvusxv cmtmvndv a n?”

“Sxv a q”

“Mf vonyvintbpxux vau,v a vonyvfnu?”vhyx.uanfx vZnf.nfq

“Av a ,”vmf.excx vFm.sv[fnuxv37]q

“Fne,va.vfnuvusa.v.bxxisvndvusxvbpmoxc.vafvca aiypxvndvusovencw?”

“Bn..akpo,”vmf.excx vFm.s,v.ntxesmuvfxuupx vkovusxvhyx.uanfqv“Avsm vfn
pnrxvdncvusxv.ykzxiuvmf vby.sx vusxvencwveausnyuvaf.bacmuanf;vkyuvfn
nfxvkyuvTmcpnex,vtxusafw.,venyp vsmrxvumwxfvnddxf.xvmuvtovexmwvipn.afg
ndvsa.v.ucnfgvmf vbnxuaivnbxfafgq”

“Mf vusxv.uncovndvUcnovem.vmvdnf vnfxvndvsa.q”

“Ucyx,vusxvdmtny.vSxpxfva.vusxv.ykzxiuvndvinfzycmuanfvafvDmy.uy.vmf va.
.bnwxfvndvafvUmtkycpmafxq”

“Mf va.vfnuvusxv.mtxvdnf fx..v a.bpmox vafvUauy.vMf cnfaiy.,vUsx
TxcismfuvndvRxfaix,vWafgvSxfcovAR,vWafgvSxfcovRA,vUcnapy.vmf vIcx..a m,
mf vusxvUxtbx.u?”

“Auva.q”

“Expp,vusxfvadvusov.ybbn.auanfva.vinccxiuvusmuvTmcpnexvaf.uxm vnd
.smwx.bxcxvecnuxvusa.vbpmovndvSmtpxu,vesova.vfnuvtovusxncovinccxiuvusmu
sxva.vsnp afgvybvusovxjucmrmgmfuvpafx.vafv a nvunvca aiypx?”v[fnuxv48]

“Kyu,vsnevimfvusmuvkxvbn..akpx?”vcxuncux vFm.s,v“esapxvAvtmovkx
afipafx vunvkxpaxrxvusmuvTmcpnexvecnuxvusa.vbpmo,vauvinyp vfnuvsmrx
kxxfv.afixvAvintbpxux vsa.vyfdafa.sx v cmtmvndv a n;vdncv a vsxvfnuv ax
afv1593?”

“A.vusxcxvfnuvgnn vcxm.nfvunv a.byuxvusmuv xmus?”

“Kovesmu?”

“Usxvafuxcfmpvxra xfixvndvusa.vbpmoq”

“Mf vkovesmuvxp.x?”

“Usxvinfucm aiuncovcxbncu.vndvsa.v xmusq”

“Mf vunvesmuvinfipy.anfv nx.vmppvusa.vuxf ?”

“UsmuvTmcpnexv.uappvparx.,vmfvnyuim.u,vmvdygauarxvdcntvzy.uaixq”

“Kyuvesovmfvnyuim.u;vesovmvdygauarx?”

“Esmuvxp.xvenyp vimy.xvsatvunvwxxbvinfixmpx ?”

“Usnyvsm.uvfnuvmf.excx vusxvhyx.uanfq”

“ a vsxvfnuvnddxf vusxvisycis?vExcxvfnuv acxiuvismcgx.vtm xvmgmaf.u
sat?vEm.vfnuvusxvHyxxfvmbbca.x ?vEm.vfnuvusa.vkyuvuscxxv mo.vkxdncxvsa.
 a.mbbxmcmfix?vOnyvwfnevusxvismcgx?”

“Mox,vkpm.bsxtoq”

“Mf v.xxvesmuvusxvbpmovcxrxmp.,vkauuxcvcxtxtkcmfix.,vbxc.nfmpvgcaxd.
mf v nyku.,vta.mfuscnbovafv.ucnfgx.uv.ncuqv‘Usxv.yau.vndvenx,’vusx
‘exmco,v.umpx,vdpmuvmf vyfbcndaumkpxvy.x.vndvusa.vencp ,’v‘infumgany.
kpm.utxfu.,’vusxvpn.afgvndv‘mppvtacus,’v‘exvdnnp.vndvfmuycx,’v‘usx
.pxxbvndv xmus,’v‘usxvkpa.uxcvnfvusxvdncxsxm vndvusxvnfixvaffnixfu
pnrx,’vUsx.xvmcxvkyuvusxvnyubnycafg.vndvnfxv.aiwvndvusxvrmfauax.vnd
padx,vsnbxpx..vndvdmtx,vkxcxduvndvmppvzno.,vmf vyf.npmix vkovcxpaganfq”

“Kms!vnfxvafvpnrxvimfvecauxvndvtyc xcvmf vtm fx..q”

“Ucyx,vm.vauvtmovdauvusxv.uncovusmuvsxvecaux.;vkyuvusa.va.vmv cmtm
afvesaisvusxvpagsuvmf v mcwvinyp vexppvtafgpxvunvusxvafuxcx.uvndvusx
my aunc.;vkyuvfn,v’ua.vsxmroveausvusxvdcyauvndvgpnntovbsapn.nbsaimp
tx aumuanf.vbcnrnwx vafvmv.xf.auarxvtaf vdcntvkcnn afgvnrxcv.ntxvicatx
tncxv mcwvusmfvusmuvndvkpm.bsxtoq”

“.n!vmf vbn..akpovesmu?”vm.wx vFm.sq

“Usxv.pmoafgvndvmvsytmfvkxafg,”vmf.excx vZnf.nfq

“Tyc xcvkovTmcpnex?”vxzmiypmux vFm.sq

Mvdxtafafxvicovmcn.xvafvusxvknjqvAuvem.v.uadpx vaf.umfupo,vkyuvau
.unbbx vusxvinfrxc.muanfqvUsxvtmfvmuvusxvdcnfuvndvusxvknjv.sy  xcx ,
mf vinrxcx vsa.vdmixveausvsa.vsmf .qvSxvsm vmptn.uvuycfx vsa.vsxm vmu
usa.vnyuico,vkyuvsxvcx.ucmafx vsat.xpdvdncvusxvtntxfuqvUsa.vafipafmuanf
unvuycfvsm vkxxfvaf yix v.npxpovkovusxvxddxiuvybnfvsa.vxmc.,vkyu
dnppneafgvauvimtxvmvdncixvunvuycfvsatvusmuvem.vaccx.a.uakpxqvUsxvico
sm v.smwxfvmvisnc vusmuvsm vkxxfvrakcmux vkxdncx,vauv.xxtx vkovusxv.mtx
rnaixvafv.atapmcvnyuicoqvAuv a vfnuvattx amuxpovdpm.svybnfvsatvesxcx
ncvyf xcvesmuviaciyt.umfix.vsxvsm vsxmc vauqvFnvenc .vsm vca.xfvdcnt
usxvpab.vndvusa.ventmf,vm.voxuvunvsatvyf.xxf,vunvgarxvismcmiuxcvunvusx
icov.sxvsm vzy.uvyuuxcx ,vncvunvxjbpmafvau.vniim.anfqvKyuvusxvnfxvisnc 
usmuvauvrakcmux veausafvsatvucxtkpx vyfuapvusxv.yccnyf afgvfxuencwvnd
txtncovkximtxvmfatmux ,vmf vusxvumrxcfv yxpv.ixfxvmuvusxvbnafuvesxcx
Mffxvsm vuscnefvsxc.xpdvmuvusxvdxxuvndvsxcvintkmuarxvsy.kmf vmcn.xvaf
usxvtaf vndvusxvtmfvmuvusxvknj’.vx gxqvUsxventmfvkxsaf vsatvem.vMffx!
Sa.vsxm vuycfx vafrnpyfumcapoveausvusxvusnygsuqvSxv.mevsxc;vmf v.sx,
eausvgmlxvixfuxcx vybnfvsa.vdmix,vcxingfalx vsatvm.vTmcpnexv x.baux
usxvismfgxvsxvsm vxddxiux vafvsa.vfmuycmpvmbbxmcmfixqvSxvmp.nv.mevusx
xox.vndvFm.svmf vZnf.nfvdm.uxfx vybnfvsat,vmf vafv.xpdvbcx.xcrmuanfvsx
cx.ytx vusxvbn.auanfvesaisvsxvsm vkxxfvdmausdyppovtmafumafafgvyfuap
usa.vpmuxvtntxfuq

Usxvnyuicovsm vkxxfvaf yix vkovuenvimy.x.,vnfxvem.vusxvipatmj
cxmisx vafvusxvinfrxc.muanfvndvusxvuenvtxfvesaisvsm vkxxfvcyffafgvnf
 a.znafux pov ycafgvusxvbcngcx..vndvusxvbpmo,vmf vusxvnusxcvem.vusx
enyf afgvndvPmxcux.vkovSmtpxuvafvusxv yxpv.ixfxqvUsxovsm vniiyccx 
.atypumfxny.poqv.sxvsm vimygsuvusxvfmtxvndvTmcpnexvafvusxvinfrxc.muanf
fxmcvsxcvmf vwfxevusmuvusxvumpwvem.vndvsat;vusxvinfux.uveausvdnap.
kxuexxfvusxvuenvmiunc.vnfvusxv.umgxvsm vmk.nckx vsxcv.nvusmuvmgmafv.sx
.xxtx vusxvsxpbpx..v.bxiumuncvndvmv yxpvunv xmusqvAuvem.vusxvnp v.ixfx
nrxcvmgmafvafvmppvau.vrara vcxmpauoqvPmxcux.,vndvwaf paxcvm.bxiuvusmf
Kyckmgx,vm.vSmtpxu,vsm vmemwxfx vsxcv.otbmusax.,vmf v.sxv.mevsatvm.vmf
xtkn ax vTmcpnexqvUsxfvimtxvusxv.ucyggpx,vusxvxjismfgxvndvcmbaxc.vmf 
usxvuscy.uvuscnygsvusxv nykpxuvndvPmxcux.vusmuv.umggxcx vsatqvMuvusx
.mtxvuatxv.sxvsxmc vusxvdafmpvenc .vndvFm.s,vmf vusxvicovsm vbm..x vsxc
pab.q

Auva.vmvenf xcvusmuvmv.xinf vicovsm vfnuvx.imbx vsxcvesxf,vipn.xpo
dnppneafgvusa.vxjsakauanf,vusxvtmfvafvdcnfuvsm vdm.uxfx vsa.vxox.vybnf
sxc,vmf v.sxvcxingfalx vusxvbxc.nfvesntvdncvdarxvoxmc.v.sxvsm v.nygsu,
yfuap,veausvsxmcuvdmacpovxmuxfvnyuveausvusxvismfgxpx..v.ykzxiuvndvsxc
usnygsu.vmf vusxv xzxiuanfvndvmfvmbbmcxfupovdcyaupx..vhyx.u,v.sxvsm 
fytkxcx vsatvmtnfgvusxvrnaixpx..vyfcxuycfafgqvKyuvusxvra.anfvndvsa.
dmixv.xxtx vkyuvusxvfmuycmpvinfintaumfuvndvesmuvsm vzy.uvucmf.bacx q
Esov.snyp vusxvDmux.v cmgvmfovnusxcvra.mgxveausafvusxvdaxp vxausxcvnd
cxmpauovncvappy.anf?vAdvGn vencwxusvdncvmvbycbn.x,vesmuvxp.xvinyp 
mppvusxvxrxfu.vucmf.bacafgveausafvusxvIycumafvnfvusmuv movpxm vybvun,
xjixbuvusxvtxxuafgvndvusxvpnrxc.?

Infucnppx vkovmfvaccx.a.uakpxvatbyp.x,vMffxvpxduvsxcvismac,vmf vintafg
dncemc vunvesxcxvTmcpnexvem.v.xmux ,vdxppvnfvsxcvwfxx.vkx.a xvsatqvUsx
ipn.afgvbxmpvndvnc fmfixvsm v.nyf x ,vmf vmta vusxvbcnpnfgx vmbbpmy.x
ndvusxvgcxmuvsny.x,vusxvbpmovsm vxf x qvUsxvxfusy.am.tvinfuafyx ,
 x.bauxvusxvcxingfauanfvndvauvkovusxvpxm afgvmiunc.,vesnvknex vmgmaf
mf vmgmafvdcntvusxv.umgx’.vdcnfuqvAuvem.vtncxvusmfvusa.vmiwfnepx gtxfu
ndvau.v xtnf.ucmuarxvbcma.xvusmuvusxvmy axfixvemfux qvNfpovmvbncuanfvnd
usxvmbbpmy.xvem.vdncvusxvmiunc.,vusxvcx.uvem.vdncvusxvgxfay.vesnvsm 
cma.x vusxvucxtxf ny.vucmgx oq

“Esxcxva.vusxvmyusnc?”

“Pxuvsatvintxvdncus!”

.yisvexcxvusxvicax.vusmuvmcn.xqvKyuvfnvnfxvmf.excx vusxvmbbxmpqvDcnt
sa.vbpmixvkxsaf vnfxveafgvndvusxv.umgx,v.smwx.bxcxvpnnwx vnyuvybnf
usxvuytypu,vmf vusxfvsa.vxox.vemf xcx vunvusxvknjvesxcxafv.muvusx
yfwfnefvicxmuncvndvusxv cmtmqvEm.vusxvpmuuxcvfnuvatbxppx vunemc vbykpai
cxingfauanfvndvusxvtypuauy x’.vmbbpmy.x?

Sx,vTmcpnex,vem.vbn..x..x veausvuxtbncmcovxpmuanfvnrxcvusxvxfusy.am.t
ndvusxvmy axfix,vmf veausvusxvdycusxcvwfnepx gxvusmuvusxvnfxvesntvsx
pnrx vem.vfnevkx.a xvsatqvAfvsa.vxi.um.o,vauv.xxtx vusmuvsxvtafgpx 
eausvusxvgn .qvUsxv mcwfx..vafvesaisvsxv expu,vmf vusxvtagsuovencp ,
rnaixpx..vm.vunvsat.xpdvmf vsa.vtxcau,vexcxvm.vfmygsuqvUsxv.mtxv.bacau
usmuvsm vdappx vmf vdacx vsatvafvusxvbcn yiuanfvndvusxvxuxcfmpv cmtm,
mgmafvbn..x..x vsat,vmf vdncvnfix,vkyuvfnuvmgmaf,vsxvdxpuvusxvicnefvnd
pmycxpvmknyuvsa.vkcne.q




MBBXF AJq


1v“Mv.xinf v.smwx.bxcx,vfnuvnfpovkximy.xvsxvcn.xvpawxvsatvdcntvmfvmiunc
unvkxvmvtmwxcvndvbpmo.,v*v*v*vkyuvmp.nvkximy.xv*v*v*vsxv.xxt.vunvsmrxvm
cx.xtkpmfixvunvusmuvipxmcvyf.nbsa.uaimux veauvusmuva.vfmuycmpvunvusmu
afintbmcmkpxvbnxuq”

vvvv--Bsappab.vafvUsxmucytvBnxumcyt,vbqv24,vX qv1680q

2v“Inppaxcvinf.a xc.vusmuvTmcpnexvenyp vafvusa.vim.xv(aqvxqvsm vsx
parx )vsmrxvkxintxvmvdncta mkpxvcarmpvunv.smwx.bxcxq”

vvvv--Gxcrafy.’v.smwx.bxcxvInttxfumcax.,vbqv78q

3v“Kyuvusxv xbmcutxfuvndvucmgx ovem.v ntafmux vkovmvecauxcvndv.ybxck
gxfay.,vIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexqv.smwx.bxcx,vesn.xvbnexc.vcabxfx v.pnepo,
tmovmuvusxvuatxvesxfvsxvecnuxvusxv‘Intx ovndvXccnc.’vmf v‘Pnrx’.
PmkncvPn.u,’vsmrxvexppvsx.aumux vunv a.byuxveausvTmcpnexvsa.v.bxiamp
bcnrafixqvAtaumunc.vmf v a.iabpx.vsm vicne x vmcnyf vusxvtm.uxcq”

vvvv--X emc v ne xfq

4v“AdvTmcpnexvsm vparx vunvdafa.svsa.v‘Sxcnvmf vPxmf xc’vsxvtagsu
bxcsmb.vsmrxvinfux.ux vusxvbmptveausv.smwx.bxcxvafvsa.v‘Rxfy.vmf 
M nfa.’vmf v‘CmbxvndvPyicxixq’”

vvvv--Tmpnfxq

5v“Afvsa.vdac.uv.umgxv.smwx.bxcxvsm v cnbbx vsa.vbpyttxuvfnv xxbxcvafun
usxv.xmvndvusxv.bacauvndvtmfvusmfvTmcpnexvsm v.nyf x vkxdncxvsat,vmf 
afvusxvismffxpvndv.atbpxvxtnuanfvfnvbnxuvinyp vim.uv.ycxcvpafxveaus
.uxm axcvsmf vusmfvsxq”

vvvv--.eafkycfx’.v“Mv.uy ovndv.smwx.bxcx,”vbqv77q

“Auv[Caismc vAAA]va.v nykupx..vmvkxuuxcvbaxixvndvencwvusmfvTmcpnexvxrxc
 a ;vAv mcxvfnuv.movusmfvTmcpnexvxrxcvinyp vsmrxv nfxqvAuva.vfnuvdnc
mfovtmfvunvtxm.ycxv*v*v*vesmuvauva.vusmuvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnexvinyp vfnu
smrxv nfx;vkyuv oafgvm.vsxv a vmf vesxfvsxv a ,vxuiq”

vvvv--“Mv.uy ovndv.smwx.bxcx,”v.eafkycfxv43q

6v“Dncvtovnefvbmcu,vAvdxxpvmv.ucnfgvbxc.ym.anf,vusmuveausvm  x voxmc.
mf vexppv acxiux vxddncu.,vsxvenyp vsmrxvtm xvmvtyisvfxmcxcvmbbcnmisvun
.smwx.bxcxvusmfvsm.voxuvkxxfvtm xvkovmfovndvsa.vinyfucotxfq”

vvvv-- oix’.vTmcpnex,vbqv55q

vvvv7vCma.xvimrmpaxcn.vsagsxcvusmfvusxvipny .,
vvvvvvMf veausvusxvimffnfvkcxmwvusxvdcmtxvndvsxmrxf;
vvvvvvKmuuxcvusxv.safafgvbmpmixvndvusxv.yf,
vvvvvvMf v.sarxcvmppvusxv.umccovdactmtxfuq

vvvv--.xinf vBmcuvUmtkycpmafxvAA,v4q

vvvvvv“Fnevbapxvonycv y.uvybnfvusxvhyaiwvmf v xm ,
vvvvvvUappvndvusa.vdpmuvmvtnyfumafvonyvsmrxvtm x,
vvvvvvUnvn’xcunbvnp vBxpanf,vncvusxv.woa.svsxm 
vvvvvvNdvkpyxvNpotby.q”

vvvv--SmtpxuvAAA,v3q

vvvvvv“.ucxmt.vndvkpnn 
vvvvvvM.vrm.uvmf v xxbvm.vXybscmux.vncvFapxq”

vvvv--UmtkycpmafxvR,v2q

vvvv“Fnuvuntkvxfnygsvmf vinfuafxfu
vvvvUnvsa xvusxv.pmafq”

vvvv--SmtpxuvAR,v4q

vvvv8v“ExxbvBnepx.,vusovUmtkycpmafxvrnyu.mdx.vunv oxq
vvvvvvvv*v*v*v*v*v*v*v*v*
vvvvvvvSxvmf vusxvbpmgyxvinfuxf x vdncvusxvgmtxq
vvvvvvvv*v*v*v*v*v*v*v*v*

vvvvvvvUsxvgcmyf v a.xm.xv a. mafx vsa.vUnm xvInfixau
vvvvvvvMf v.tapafgvmuvsa.vUmtkycpmafxvinfuxtbu
vvvvvvv.uxcfpov.ucyiwvsntxvusxvbxcxtbuncov.ucnwxq”

vvvv--Smcrxo’.vFxevPxuuxc,v.xbuxtkxc,v1593q

9v“Auv.nvdxppvnyuvusmuvafvPnf nfv.ucxxu.,vm.vsxv(Tmcpnex)vbcnbn.x vun
.umkvnfx,vesntvsxvnex vmvgcy gxvyfun,veausvsa.v mggxc,v*v*v*vsxv.umkkx 
sa.vnefxv mggxcvafunvsa.vnefxvsxm ,vxuiq”

vvvv--Usntm.vKxmc ’.v“UsxmuxcvndvGn ’.vZy gtxfu.,”
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvX auanfvDac.u,v1597q

10v“M.vusxvbnxuvPoinbscnfvem.v.snuvunv xmusvkovmvixcumafvcarmppvndvsa.,
.nvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpnevem.v.umkkx vunv xmusvkovmvkme ov.xcrafgtmf,vm
carmppvndvsa.vafvsa.vpxe xvpnrxq”

vvvv--Txcx.v“Bmppm a.vUmtam,”vxuiq,v1598q

11v“Fnuvafdxcancvunvusx.xvem.vnfxvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpne,vkovbcndx..anf
mvbpmotmwxc,vesn,vm.vauva.vcxbncux ,vmknyuv14voxmc.vmgnvecnuxvmvknnw
mgmaf.uvusxvUcafauaxqvAuv.nvsmbbxfx vusmuvmuv xbudnc ,vmvpauupxvrappmgx
mknyuv3vtapx.vdcntvPnf nf,vm.vsxvtxmfuvunv.umkveausvsa.vbnfomc vnfx
fmtx vAfgcmt,vxuiq”

vvvv--Rmygsmf’.vGnp xfvGcnrx,vxuiq,v1600q

vvvv12v“M.vdncvusxvEncusax.vnfvsa.vsn.ux’.vempp,
vvvvvvvSxvwfne.vuscxxvencusov cyfwmc .vbm..vusxtvmpp;
vvvvvvvUsxvdac.uvndvusxtvafvtmfovmvumrxcfvucax ,
vvvvvvvMuvpm.uv.yk yx vkovMhymrauæv ax q”

vvvv--.mt’pvCnepmf v(bykpa.sx v1600)q

13v“Sxv(KxfvZnf.nf)vwappx vTcqvTmcpne,voxvbnxu,vnfvKyfsapp,vintafgvdcnt
usxvGcxxfvIycumafvbpmovsny.xq”

vvvv--Mykcxo’.v“Parx.vndvXtafxfuvTxf,”viauafgv.cqvX qv.sxckycfx,vbqv415q

14v“Isca.unbsxcvTmcpne,v.pmafxvkovDcmfia.vDcmlxc;v.xbqv1vndvZyfx,
1593q”vUsa.vxfucovdcntvusxvkycampvcxga.uxcvndvusxvisycisvndv.uq
Faisnpm.,v xbudnc ,vem.vwaf povdycfa.sx vtxvkovusxvbcx.xfuvbm.unc,vCxrq
EappamtvIsmf pxcqvUsxv.ycfmtxv“Dcmlxc”vsm vkxxfvgarxfvunvusxvencp 
kov oixvmf vnusxc.vm.v“Mcisxc”vmf va.v.nvbcafux vafvusxvXfioipnbx am
Kcaumffaim,vkyuv.yisva.vmvta.cxm afgq

vvvv--UsxvMyusncq

15v“A anuxvmcuvtm.uxc.vusmuvafucy xvusxt.xprx.vunvnycvxmc.vm.vusx
mpiyta.u.vndvxpnhyxfix;vesnv(tnyfux vnfvusxv.umgxvndvmccngmfix)vusafw
unvnyukcmrxvkxuuxcvbxf.veausvusxv.exppafgvkytkm.uvndvmvkcmggafgvkpmfw
rxc.xq”

vvvv--Fm.s’.vAfucn yiuanfvunvGcxxfx’.vTxfmbsnf,v1587v(Gcn.mcu’.
vvvvvvvvFm.sxvA,vJJ)q

“Mf vsxvusmuvimffnuvecauxvucyxvXfgpa.sveausnyuvusxvsxpbvndvipxcw.vnd
bmca.svisycisx.,veappvfxx .vtmwxvsat.xpdvusxvdmusxcvndvafuxcpy x.qvN,
’ua.vmvznppovtmuuxcvesxfvmvtmfvsmusvmvdmtapamcv.uopx,vmf vimfvxf auxvm
esnpxvoxmc,vmf vfnuvkxvkxsnp xfvunvmcuq”

vvvv--Gcxxfx’.vDmcxexppvunvDnppov(1587)q

“Au’.vmvinttnfvbcmiuaixvfne-m- mo.,vmtnfg.uvmv.ncuvndv.saduafg
intbmfanf.,vusmuvcyfvuscnygsvxrxcovmcuvmf vuscarxvmuvfnfx,vunvpxmrxvusx
ucm xvndvfnrxcafuvesxcxunvusxovexcxvkncfvmf vky.ovusxt.xprx.veausvusx
xf xmrnc.vndvmcu,vusmuvinyp v.imcixpovPmuafalxvusxacvfxiw-rxc.x,vad
usxov.snyp vsmrxvfxx qvOxuvXfgpa.sv.xfxim,vcxm vkovimf pxvpagsu,voaxp .
tmfovgnn v.xfuxfix.,vxuiq”

vvvv--Fm.sv(1587)q

vvvv16v“Dcntvzaggafgvrxaf.vndvcsotafgvtnusxcveau.,
vvvvvvvvMf v.yisvinfixau.vm.vipnefmgxvwxxb.vafvbmo,
vvvvvvvvEx’ppvpxm vonyvunvusxv.umuxpovuxfuvndvemcq”

vvvv--BcnpngyxvunvTmcpnex’.vUmtkycpmafx,vBmcuvDac.uq

17v“Kxdncxvsatvusxcxvem.vfxausxcvgxfyafxvkpmfwvrxc.xvfncvmvgxfyafx
ucmgx ovafvnycvpmfgymgxq”

vvvv--McuaipxvnfvTmcpnex,vXfioqvKcaumffaim,vrnpqvJR,vbqv556q

“Usmuvdaxcovcxdnctxcvesnvecnygsuvnfvusxvnp vXfgpa.sv.umgxvfnvpx..vm
tacmipxvusmfvSxcfmfavnfvusxvDcxfisv.umgxvafvusxv mo.vndvnycvdmusxc.q”

vvvv--.eafkycfx’.v“.uy ovndv.smwx.bxcx,”vbqv31q

vvvv18v“Hyaiwx-.agsux v.bacau.,--usa.v.ybbn.x vMbbnpn,--
vvvvvvvvInfixauvfnvnusxc,vkyuvusxvm tacx vTmcpn;
vvvvvvvvTmcpnvm tacx ,vesn.xvsnffxo-dpneafgvrxaf
vvvvvvvvFnvXfgpa.svecauxcvimfvm.voxuvmuumafxq”

vvvv--SxfcovBxunex,v.xinf vBmcu,v“Sxcnvmf vPxmf xc,”v1598q

vvvv19v“Fnev(m.v.eaduvm.vUatx
vvvvvvvv nusvdnppnevTnuanf)vdaf vus’vxuxcfmpvipatx
vvvvvvvvNdvsa.vdcxxv.nyp,vesn.xvparafgv.ykzxiuv.unn 
vvvvvvvvYbvunvusxvisafvafvusxvBaxcamfvdpnn ,
vvvvvvvvMf v cyfwvunvtxvsmpdvusa.vTy.xmfv.unco
vvvvvvvvAf.icakafgvauvunv xmuspx..vtxtncoq”

vvvv--Ismbtmf’.vUsac v.x.uam vunvTmcpnex’.vSxcnvmf vPxmf xcq

vvvv20v“Yfsmbbovafvusafxvxf ,
vvvvvvvvTmcpxo,vusxvTy.x.’v mcpafgvdncvusovrxc.x,
vvvvvvvvDauvunvecauxvbm..anf.vdncvusxv.nyp.vkxpne,
vvvvvvvvAdvmfovecxuisx v.nyp.vafvbm..anfv.bxmwq”

vvvv--GxncgxvBxxpxv“BcnpngyxvunvusxvSnfnycvndvusxvGmcuxcq”

21v“Usxvatbcx..anfvndvusxvtmfvusmuvsmusvkxxfv xmcvyfunvy.,vparafgvmf
mduxcvpadxvafvnycvtxtnco,vxuiq”

vvvv--Kpyfu’.v x aimuanfvndvSxcnvmf vPxmf xc,v1598q

vvvv22v“A.vauvmv cxmt?vncva.vusxvSagsx.uvtaf x
vvvvvvvvUsmuvxrxcvsmyfux vBmyp.,vncvsmyfux veaf x
vvvvvvvvKxcxduvndvusmuv.mtxv.wo-.yctnyfuafgvkcxmus,
vvvvvvvvUsmuvkcxmusvusmuvumygsuvusxvUatbmfovunv.expp?”

vvvv--“.nfxuvGncgnf,”vGmkcaxpvSmcrxo,v1593q

vvvv23v“ xm vTy.æy.’vgcmiany.v.nfgq”

vvvv--SxfcovIsxuupxq

vvvv24v“FxjuvTmcpne,vkmusx vafvusxvUsx.bamfv.bcafg.,
vvvvvvvvSm vafvsatvusn.xvkcmrxvucmf.pyfmcovusafg.
vvvvvvvvUsmuvusxvdac.uvbnxu.vsm ;vsa.vcmbuycx.vexcx
vvvvvvvvMppvmacvmf vdacxvesaisvtm xvsa.vrxc.x.vipxmcq”

vvvv--Taismxpv cmounf’.vXba.upx,vxuiq

25vKxfvZnf.nf’.vinttxf muncovrxc.x.vbcxdajx vunvusxvDnpanvX auanfvnd
1623,vimffnuvkxvafipy x vmtnfgvusxvinfuxtbncmcovfnuaix.qvUsxovexcx
fnuvecauuxfvyfuapv.xrxfvoxmc.vmduxcv.smwx.bxcx’.v xmusqvKxfvZnf.nf
dmapx vunvecauxvmygsuvmknyuv.smwx.bxcxvesapxvusxvpmuuxcvparx qvSa.
.fxxc.vmuvusxvxmcpov“.smwx.bxcxvbpmo.,”vm.v.snefvafvusxvBcnpngyx
unv“XrxcovTmfvAfvSa.vSytnc”vmf vsa.v.nffxuv“NfvBnxu-Mbx,”vmcxvunn
exppvwfnefvunvfxx vhynumuanf;vmf ,vkxafgvmv“infuxtfxcvmf v.incfxcvnd
nusxc.,”vnfxvty.uvpnnwvunv.xpdvafuxcx.uvm.vkxafgvusxvtnuarxvdncvusx
bcn yiuanfvndvusn.xvinttxf muncovpafx.vunvsa.v“kxpnrx ,vusxvmyusnc,
Tm.uxcvEappamtv.smwx.bxcxq”vEm.vfnuvusa.v.xpdvafuxcx.uvmvdafmfiamp
nfxvafvusxv.smwx.bxcxvbpmo.?v.smwx.bxcxv ax vafv1616qvUsxvdac.uvdnpan
x auanfvmbbxmcx vafv1623qvUsxvm  cx..,vusxcxaf,vmuucakyux vkovTmpnfx
mf vtmfovnusxcvinttxfumunc.,vunvZnf.nf,vcxiaux vusmuvusxvbpmo.vmcxvfne
nddxcx vunv“raxeviycx vmf vbxcdxiuvndvusxacvpatk.,”vmf v“exvsmrxv.imcix
cxixarx vdcntvsatvmvkpnuvafvsa.vbmbxc.q”vAdvusx.xv.umuxtxfu.vexcxvucyx
ndvtmfy.icabu.,vyftxfuanfx vafvusxveappvndv.smwx.bxcx,vmf v“inppxiux ”
kovSxtafgxvmf vInf xppvdcntvusxvbpmosny.x.,vauvty.uvkxvusmuv.ntxvtm.uxc
taf vmccmfgx ,vcxra.x vmf vcxinbax vusxtv ycafgvusxv.xrxfvoxmc.vkxuexxf
.smwx.bxcx’.v xmusvmf vusa.vbykpaimuanfqvDcntvusxv muxvndvusxv xmus
ndv.smwx.bxcxv(1616)vunv1625,v“Znf.nfv a vfnuvecauxvnfxvpafxvdncvusx
.umgx!”vAuvem.vusa.vcxra.anfvusmuvwxbuvsatv.apxfu,vmf vm.vx auncvndvusx
dnpanvx auanfvsxv.nygsuvdncvcxatkyc.xtxfuvdncvsa.vpmknc.vafvau.v.mpxq
“Kyuvesmuxrxcvonyv n,vkyo,”vcxm .vusxvm  cx..vafvusmuvx auanf;vmf vusx
inttxf muncovrxc.x.vmcxvbcma.xvxfnygsvunvxjiauxvbycism.x.q

Hymcunvx auanf.vndvesmuvmcxvfnevuxctx vusxvgxfyafx,vmf vmp.nvndvesmu
mcxvfnevuxctx vusxv.bycany.vbpmo.,vsm vkxxfvmbbxmcafgvdncvmfvafuxcrmp
ndvuexfuo-darxvoxmc.,veausvusxvmffnyfixtxfuvnfvusxacvuaupxvbmgx.
ndvkxafgv“fxepovmccmfgx vko,”vncv“ecauuxfvko”vEappamtv.smwx.bxcxq
Usxvipmat.vmffnyfix vnfvusx.xvuaupxvbmgx.vmbbxmcvfxrxcvunvsmrxvkxxf
 a.byux vkov.smwx.bxcxqv“MvOncw.sacxvUcmgx o,”v“UsxvPnf nfvBcn agmp,”
mf v“UsxvDac.uvBmcuvndvusxvPadxvndv.acvZnsfvNp im.upx”vexcxv.n
bykpa.sx vm.vsa.vencwqvUsxfvdnppnex vusxvinppxiuanfvndv cmtm.vafvusx
x auanfvndv1623qvZnf.nfvtmo,vncvtmovfnu,vsmrxvwfnefvusxvcxmpvdmiu.vnd
usxvmyusnc.sabqvAdvsxvwfxevusmuv.ntxvbxc.nf.,vnusxcvusmfv.smwx.bxcx,
excxvusxvmyusnc.,vsxvexfuvnfpovmv.uxbvdycusxcvusmfvsxv a vafvsa.
m  cx..vafv“.xzmfy.,”vesxcxvsxvdmap.vunvtxfuanfvusxvfmtxvndvusxv“smbbo
gxfay.”vesnvecnuxvusmuvucmgx oveausvsat;vkyuvsa.vnefvtnp afgvndvusx
bpmovsm.vfnuv x.ucnox vusxvucmixvndvTmcpnex’.vxpxtxfumpveauvusxcxafq
Exvenyp vcmusxcvmuucakyuxvunvZnf.nfvagfncmfixvndvusxvmyusnc.sabvnd
usxvbpmo.,vmf vafvusa.vagfncmfixvm..agfafgvusxtvunvusxvTmfmgxcvndvusx
Gpnkx,vusmfvunvbpmixvsatvnfvusxvpxrxpvndvusxvMciska.snbvesnvnc xcx 
Tmcpnex’.vucmf.pmuanfvndvusxv“Mtncx.”vkycfu,vncvndvCaismc vKmtx,
esnvecnuxvusxvmiiy.muanfvndvkpm.bsxto,vncvndvusn.xvyfwfnefvmf vtncx
bnexcdypvbxc.nf.,vxausxcvndvIsycisvncv.umux,vesnvpmkncx vunvkpnuvnyuvnd
txtncovusxv mcafgvmf vatbany.vTmcpnexq

Usxvinbovndvusxv.xinf vdnpanvx auanfv(1632),vinfumafafgvxtxf muanf.
ndvusxvncagafmpvuxju,vm.vgarxfvunvusxvencp vkovTcqvInppaxc,vad
gxfyafx,vinfumaf.vxra xfixvndvtovusxncovndvKxfvZnf.nf’.vx auafgvusx
xmcpax.uvx auanfvndvusxvbpmo.qvUsa.vinbovinfumafx vafuxcpafxmuanf.
mf vinccxiuanf.vndvuxjuvesaisvinyp vsmrxvkxxfvtm xvnfpovkovmfvx aunc
eausvusxvtmfy.icabuvkxdncxvsat,vncvkovmv.uy xfuv xxbpovrxc.x qvUsx
smf ecauafgv a.bpmox vafvusx.xvxtxf muanf.va.vmvdmi.atapxvndvKxf
Znf.nf’.q

vvvv--UsxvMyusncq

Dncvintbmca.nf,vmvbncuanfvndvmvdmi.atapxvbmgxvndvxtxf muanf.vaf
Inppaxc’.vrnpytx,vmf v.ntxvndvusxvecauafgvndvZnf.nf,vmcxvsxcxvbcafux :

[Appy.ucmuanf:

vvXfuxcvIsmcpx.,vMpmf.nf,vKycgyf ax,vKm.umc ,
vvmf vByixpp

vv_Ismcq_vSm vOncwxvmf v.ntxc.xuvkcnygsuvcx.iyxvaf,
vvExv.snyp vsmrxvdnyf vmvkpnn ov movndvusa.q

vv_Km.uq_vSnevusxvonfgvexpbxvndv_Umpknu._vcmgafgvenn ,
vv a vdpx.svsa.vbyfax-.enc vafvDcxfistxf.vkpnn q

vv_Byiq_vNfixvAvxfinyfucx vsat,vmf vusy.vAv.ma :
vvUsnyvTma xfvonyus,vkxvrmfhya.suvkovmvTma xq
vvKyuveausvmvbcny vTmzx.uaimppvsagsv.incfx
vvSxvmf.exc’ vusy.:vOnfgv_Umpknu_vem.vfnuvkncfx
vvUnvkxvusxvbappmgxvndvmvGagpnuvExfis,
vvSxvpxduvtxvbcny po,vm.vyfencusovdagsuq

vv_Kycq_v nykupx..xvsxvenyp vsmrxvtm xvmvfnkpxvWfagsu:
vv.xxvesxcxvsxvpox.vafsxcix vafvmctx.
vvNdvusxvtn.uvkpnn ovFyc..xcvndvsa.vsmctx.q

vvSn.vxgnvrxc.aiypn.vdxiaq
vvKxf:vZnf.nfq]

26v“Usa.vraxevem.vxtkcmix vkovDcx xcaiv.ispxgxpvafvsa.vsa.uncovnd
PauxcmuycxqvSxvbxcixarx vafv.smwx.bxcxvmvfmuycxv xxbpov.xf.auarxvmf 
my.uxcxpovucmgai,vmv a.bn.auanfva.npmux ,vcx.xcrx vmf v.npaumcoq”

vvvv--Gxcrafy.,v480q

27vX auanf.vmbbxmcx v ycafgvusx.xvoxmc.vndvX emc vAA,vUsxvTm..micxvnd
Bmca.,vmf v a n,vmppvkxmcafgvusxvfmtxvndvTmcpnexvnfvusxacvuaupxvbmgx.q

vvvv--Kyppxf’.vTmcpnexq

28vUauy.vMf cnfaiy.vem.vbykpa.sx vafv1594;vCntxnvmf vZypaxu,v1597;
Caismc vAA,v1597;vCaismc vAAA,v1597qvFnvfmtxvndvmyusncvem.vnfvusxac
uaupxvbmgx.q

vvvv--Dpxmo’.vPadxvmf vIsmcmiuxcvndv.smwx.bxcxq
vvvvvvvvSmppaexpp-Bsappabb.vNyupafx.vismbqv“Padx
vvvvvvvvUatxvX auanf.q”

29vUsxvdac.uvbykpa.sx v cmtmvkxmcafgv.smwx.bxcx’.vfmtxvem.vPnrx’.vPmknc
Pn.u,v1598qv“Fxepovinccxiux vmf vmygtxfux vkovEqv.smwx.bxcx,”vexcxvusx
enc .vnfvusxvuaupxvbmgxq

vvvv--Dpxmo’.vPadxvmf vIsmcmiuxcvndv.smwx.bxcxq--Nyupafx.,
vvvvvvvvismbuxcv“PadxvUatxvX auanf.q”

30v“Pawxv.acvEmpuxcvCmpxags,vmf vmvdxevpx..vtxtncmkpxvtxfvndvusx
.mtxvgxfxcmuanf,vsxvem.vmuumiwx vafvsa.vnefvuatx,vfnuvtxcxpovm.vm
dcxx-usafwxc,vkyuvm.vmvbcnbmgmf a.uvncvmbn.upxvndvmusxa.t;vfncvem.vusx
accxgypmcauovndvsa.vpadxvusnygsuvencusaxcvndvmfatm rxc.anfvusmfvusx
yfixcumafuovndvsa.vparxpasnn q”

vvvv--Mcuaipxv“Tmcpnex,”vXfioipnbx amvKcaumffaimq

31vUsa.vmiiy.muanfva.vmtnfgvusxvSmcpxamfvT..q,v6853,vdnpqv320,vmf va.
xfuaupx v“MvfnuxvinfumafafgvusxvnbafanfvndvnfxvIsca.unbsxcvTmcpox,
infixcfafgvsa.v mtfmkpxvnbafanf.vmf vzy gtxfuvndvcxpoganfvmf v.incfxvnd
Gn ’.venc xq”vNfvauva.vmp.nvmvtxtncmf ytvusmuveausafvuscxxv mo.vmduxc
au.v xparxco,vTmcpnexv“imtxvunvmv.n xfvmf vdxmcdyppvxf vndvsa.vpadxq”
Auva.vxf nc.x v“InbovndvTmcpnex.vkpm.bsxfox.vm.v.xfuvunvsxcvSagsfx..q”
Mvgcxmuvbncuanfvndvauva.vunnvmkntafmkpxvunvkxvbcafux q

vvvv-- oix’.vTmcpnexq
vvvv--Kyppxf’.vTmcpnexq

32vUsxcxvmcxvnfpovdarxvwfnefv.agfmuycx.vndvEtqv.smwx.bxcx,vmf vfnvnusxc
ecauuxfvenc .vncvtmfy.icabuvwfnefvunvkxvkovsa.vsmf qvUsxv.icmep.vmcx
.imcixpov xiabsxcmkpxvmf v.ucnfgpovmuvrmcamfixveausvusxv.umuxtxfuvtm x
kovSxtafgxvmf vInf xppvafvusxvDac.uvDnpanvX auanfvndvusxvBpmo.:v“Sa.
taf vmf vsmf vexfuvungxusxc,vmf vesmuvsxvusnygsuvsxvecnuxveausvusmu
xm.afx..,vusmuvexvsmrxv.imcixvcxixarx vdcntvsatvmvkpnuvafvsa.vbmbxc.q”

33v“Sa.vdmixvem.vpawxvmvcnuuxfvcy..xuvmbbpxvesxfvauva.vkcya.x ,”vmf vsx
em.v x.icakx vkovsat.xpdvm.vcxtmcwmkpxvdnc

vvvv“Sa.vtnyfumafvkxppovmf vsa.vcniwovdmixq”

Sxvem.v“enfuvunvexmcvmvinmuveausv.pau.vyf xcvusxvmctbau.q”

vvvv--Wfagsu’.vPnf nf,vrnpqvA,v367q

34vUsa.vMiuvndv1593v“xfmiux vusxvbxfmpuovndvatbca.nftxfuvmgmaf.uvmfo
bxc.nfvmknrxvusxvmgxvndv16vesnv.snyp vdnckxmcvdncvusxv.bmixvndvnfx
tnfusvunvcxbmacvunv.ntxvisycis,vxuiqvUsn.xvesnvcxdy.x vunv.yktauvun
usx.xvinf auanf.vexcxvunvmkzycxvusxvcxmpt,vmf vadvusxov.snyp vcxuycf
eausnyuvusxvhyxxf’.vpaixf.x,vunv.yddxcv xmusvm.vdxpnf.q”

vvvv--Smppmt’.vInf.uauyuanfmpvSa.unco,vrnpqvA,v215qv35vXpalmkxus,viqv1q

35vMppvusxvinttxfumunc.vsmrxvumwxfvauvdncvmfvaf a.byumkpxvdmiuvusmu
Gcxxfvafvsa.vGcnmu.encusvndvEauvtxmfuv.smwx.bxcxvesxfvsxvmuumiwx 
.ntxvyffmtx v cmtmua.uvm.vnfxvesn.xv“Uogxc’.vsxmcu”vem.v“ecmbuvafvm
bpmoxc’.vsa xq”v oixv.mo.vusmuvfnvnfxvimfvsx.aumuxvunvkxpaxrxvusmu
Gcxxfvem.v.bxmwafgvndv.smwx.bxcxqvUsxfvsxv xtnf.ucmux.vusmuvusx
bpmovesxcxafvusxvmknrxvenc .vdac.uvmbbxmcx v(“UsxvUcyxvUcmgx axvnd
Caismc v ywxvndvOncw”)vem.vecauuxfvkovTmcpnex,vmf v.nv.mo.vSmppmt;
mf vxrxfvSmppaexpp-Bsappabb.vm..xcu.vusmuvusxvpafxvmknrxvhynux vsm.
usxvucyxvTmcpnexmfvcafgqvUmwafgvusmuvdmiuvm.vbcnrxf,vauva.v addaiypu
unvkxpaxrxvusmuvusxvecauxcvesntvGcxxfvusy.vmuumiwx vm.v“mkpxvun
kytkm.uvnyuvmvkpmfwxvrxc.x,”vem.vmfovnusxcvusmfvusxv cmtmua.uvesnt
Fm.sx,vafvsa.vxba.upxvafvGcxxfx’.vTxfmbsnfx,vmuumiwx vafv1587,vdncvusx
“.exppafgvkytkm.uvndvmvkcmggafgvkpmfwvrxc.x”v(.xxvfnuxv15vsxcxaf)q
Usxvucnykpxveausvmppvusx.xvinttxfumunc.v.xxt.vunvkxvusmu,v.xxafgvusx
enc v“.smwx-.ixfx,”vafvGcxxf’.vpafx.,vm.v x.icabuarxvndvusa.vkntkm.uai
ecauxc,vusxovmcxvyfmkpxvunvyf xc.umf vesovusxv.oppmkpxv“.smwx”v.snyp 
smrxvkxxfvy.x vyfpx..v.smwx.bxcxvem.vtxmfuqv“.smwx.ixfx”vtxmf.vfnvtncx
usmfvmfvmiuncvesnv“.snnwvusxv.umgx,”vmf vusxvintbpmafuvmgmaf.uvsatvem.
usxv.mtxvm.vusxvxmcpaxcvnfxvndvFm.sx’.vmknrxvmppy x vunqvUsa.vxmcpaxc
nfxvmbbxmcx v ycafgvusxvoxmcvusmuv.smwx.bxcx,vzy.uvmccarx vdcntvsa.
inyfucovsntx,vem.vsnp afgvsnc.x.vkxdncxvusxvGcxxfvIycumafxvusxmuxcqvUsx
inttxfumunc.vmgcxxvusmuvusxvdac.uvmuumiwv(fnuxv15)vem.v acxiux vmgmaf.u
Tmcpnexqv.xxvGxcrafy.v(bqv77),vesnv.bxmw.vndvusxv“gxfxcmpvybcnmcvnd
xfrovmf vca aiypxvcma.x ”vmgmaf.uvTmcpnex’.v“ cyttafgv xim.oppmknf.q”
(Mp.nv.xxvKyppxf’.vTmcpnex,vbqv17)qvAvinfuxf vusmuvusxvpmuxcvmuumiwvem.
mp.nvybnfvTmcpnexq

vvvv--UsxvMyusncq

36v.ucmudnc vnfvMrnfvem.vafvusxvuatxvndv.smwx.bxcx’.vonyusv“mvknnwpx..
fxagskncsnn q”

vvvv--Smppaexpp-Bsappabb.vNyupafx.,vbqv88q
vvvvvvvv.xxvmp.nvA qvbqv1vmf v2q

37v“Avinf.a xcvto.xpdvknyf vunvkxpaxrx,vuappv.ntxvbn.auarxvbcnndvkx
bcn yix vunvusxvinfucmco,vusmuv a nvem.vintbpxux vdncvusxv.umgxvkovFm.s
mduxcvusxv xixm.xvndvTmcpnexq”

vvvv-- oix’.vTmcpnex,vbqv36q

“KyuvIsmbtmfvsm vmp.nvkxxfvky.oveausvmvinfuafymuanfvndvTmcpnex’.
‘smpd-unp vumpxq’”

vvvv-- oix’.vTmcpnex,vbqv42q

38qv“Auva.vmvintdncuvunvwfnevusmuvusxvcyddamfvesnv cxevybvusxvismcgx.,
mvixcumafv‘Coismc vKmtx’,vem.vsmfgx vmuvUokycfvnfv6usv xixtkxc,v1594q
 nykupx..vKmtxvem.vkmiwx vkov.ntxvbxc.nfvncvbxc.nf.vndvbnexcvmf 
bn.auanfqvAuvem.vmv xpakxcmuxvmuuxtbuvnfvusxvbmcuvndv.ntxvdmfmuai.vun
af yixvusxvbykpaivmyusncauax.vunvaf.uauyuxvmvbcn.xiyuanfvdncvkpm.bsxto
mgmaf.uvusxvbnxuq”

vvvv--Kyppxf’.vTmcpnex,vbqv69q

39vUsxvbm..mgxvesais,vybnfvkxafgvcxm vkovusxvinf xtfx ,venyp vxfuaupx
satvunvpakxcmuanfqv.xxvKxfxdauvndvIpxcgoq

40vAfvEmuu.vrqvKcmaf.,v2vIcnwx,v778,vusxvzycovcxuycfx vmvrxc aiuvnd
fnuvgyapuo,vkyuvexcxv.xfuvkmiwvmf vkcnygsuvafvmvrxc aiuvndvgyapuoqvUsx
 xdxf mfuvem.vsmfgx vmf vusxvzycovdafx q

41qvDncvxra xfixvndv.atapmcauovafvcsoust,v aiuanfvmf vusnygsuvcxm vusx
bmcmppxpvbm..mgx.vmuvusxvsxm .vndvxmisvismbuxcvndvusa.vknnwq

vvvv42v“Kpmiwva.vusxvkxmyuovndvusxvkcagsux.uv mo;
vvvvvvvvUsxvgnp xfvkmppvndvSxmrxf’.vxuxcfmpvdacx,
vvvvvvvvUsmuv mfix veausvgpncovnfvusxv.aprxcvemrx.,
vvvvvvvvFnevemfu.vusxvdyxpvusmuvafdpmtx vsa.vkxmt.;
vvvvvvvvMf vmppvdncvdmafufx..vmf vdncvdnypv a.gcmix,
vvvvvvvvSxvkpaf .vsa.vuxtbpx.veausvmvdcnefafgvipny ,
vvvvvvvvCxm ovunv mcwxfvxmcusveausvxf px..vfagsuq”

vvvv--AAvUmtkycpmafx,vAA,v5q

vvvvvvv“Usxvgmy o,vkmkkpafgvmf vcxtnc.xdypv mo
vvvvvvvvA.vicxbuvafunvusxvkn.ntvndvusxv.xm,
vvvvvvvvMf vfnevpnfgvsnepafgvenprx.vmcny.xvusxvzm x.
vvvvvvvvUsmuv cmgvusxvucmgaivtxpmfisnpovfagsu;
vvvvvvvvEsnveausvusxacv cne.ov.pnevmf vdpmggafgveafg.
vvvvvvvvIpabv xm vtxf’.vgcmrx.,vmf vdcntvusxacvta.uovzme.
vvvvvvvvKcxmusxvdnypvinfumgany.v mcwfx..vafvusxvmacq”

vvvv--.xinf vBmcuvSxfcovRAq

vvvvMyuvIsca.unbsxcy.vTmcpnex,vmyuv amknpy.,v“Mv.uy ovndv.smwx.bxcx,”
vvvvkov.eafkycfx,vbqv52q

43v“TcqvDpxmovkxpaxrx.vsatv[usxvecauxcvndvusxvbpmo.]vunvsmrxvkxxfvm
bmcufxcvndv.smwx.bxcx,vesn.xvfmtxv.nvdmcva.vyf a.inrxcmkpxq”

vvvv--Tncgmf’.v“.smwx.bxcxvAfvDmiuvmf vAfvIcauaia.t,”vvbqv18q

44v“Usxcxvexcxvuaxc.vndvgmppxcax.vncv.imddnp .;vkxfxmusvusx.x,vusx
knjx.vncvcnnt.vafuxf x vdncvbxc.nf.vndvusxvsagsxcvipm..,vmf vesaisvmu
usxvbcarmuxvusxmuxc.vexcxv.xiycx veausvpniw.,vusxvwxo.vkxafgvgarxfvun
usxvaf ara ymp.vesnvxfgmgx vusxtq”

vvvv-- oix’.v.smwx.bxcx,vbqv41q

45v“Usxvunbvndvsa.vbxcdnctmfixvem.vusxvgsn.uvafvSmtpxuq”

vvvv--Cnex’.vPadxvndv.smwx.bxcxq

46qv“Avenf xcvusmuvusxvinttxfumunc.v.snyp vsmrxvnrxcpnnwx v.nvnkrany.
mfvncagafvndvusa.vbm..mgxvm.vPyimf’.v x.icabuanfv(Bsmc.mpamvpakqv1)vnd
usxvbcn agax.vesaisvbcxix x vusxv xmusvndvIæ.mcq”

vvvv--FnuxvafvDycfx..’vRmcancyt,vrnpqv3,vbqv17v(SyfuxcvAA,v214)q

47vTmcpnex’.vucmf.pmuanfvndvPyimf’.vBsmc.mpamvem.vdac.uvbykpa.sx vaf
1600qv“Pyimf’.vDac.uvKnnwxvUcmf.pmux vPafxvdncvPafxvkovIscqvTmcpne,vmu
Pnf nf,v1600q”

vvvv--Kyppxf’.vTmcpnex,vrnpqv3,vbqv250q

48v“Avsnp vusxf,vusmuvusxvnkzxiuvesaisv.smwx.bxcxvsm vafvraxevaf
afucn yiafgvusa.v.bxxisvafunvSmtpxuvem.vunvxjbn.xvusxvexmwfx..vndvsa.
nbbnfxfuvFm.svm.vmvbpmoecagsuq”

vvvv--Dpxmo,vTmitappmf’.vTmgmlafx,v xiq,v1874q


DNNUFNUX.:

[1]v“.uy ovndv.smwx.bxcx,”vkov.eafkycfx,vbqv52q

[2]vUsntm.vKxmc ’.,vusxvBycaumf,vMiinyfuvndvTmcpnex’.v xmusvafvKyppxf’.
Tmcpnex,vbqv63q

[3]vUsxvbxcdnctmfixvinttxfix vmuv3vn’ipniwq-- oix’.v.smwx.bxcx,vrnpqv1,
bqv45q

[4]vMvfx.uvndvmppxo.vfxmcvusxvknuuntvndv.uqvTmcuaf’.vPmfx,v.nvimppx vko
Znf.nfq--Wfagsu’.vPnf nf,vrnpqv1,vbqv369q

[5]v.une’.v.ycrxo,vX qv1633,vbqv470q

[6]v oix’.v.smwx.bxcx,vrnpqv1,vbqv40q

[7]vUmafx’.vSa.uncovndvXfgpa.svPauxcmuycx,vKnnwvAA,vismbqv2q

[8]vAf yiuanfvunvIofusam’.vCxrxp.qvKxfvZnf.nfq

[9]v oix’.v.smwx.bxcx,vrnpqv1,vbqv40q

[10]v.xxvfnuxv15q

[11]v.xxvfnuxv15q

[12]v.eafkycfx’.v.uy ovndv.smwx.bxcx,vbqv24q

[13]v“Sxvucn vusxv.umgxveausvmbbpmy.xq”--Pmfgkmafxq

[14]v.xxvfnux.v18vunv24q

[15]vSmppmtvmf vPmtkq

[16]v.xxvfnuxv35q

[17]v oix’.vTmcpnex,vKyppxf’.vTmcpnexq

[18]v“ nykupx..vKmtxvem.vkmiwx vkov.ntxvbxc.nfvncvbxc.nf.vndvbnexcvmf 
bn.auanfq”--Kyppxf’.vTmcpnex,vAfucn yiuanf,vpjajq

[19]v“UsxvMusxa.u’.vUcmgx ax,”vrnpqvaaaq--Kyppxf’.vTmcpnexq

[20]vZxevndvTmpum,vMiuqvAq

[21]vSmppaexpp-Bsappabb’.vNyupafx.,v105q

[22]vKyppxf’.vTmcpnex,vAfucn yiuanf,v58q

[23]v14vXpalqviqv5v(1572)q

[24]vA q

[25]v“Usxvxmcpax.uvpxgauatmuxvusxmuxcv.nyusvndvusxvUsmtx.;vnbxfx vxmcpo
afv1592”--Smppaexpp-Bsappabb’.vNyupafx.,vbqv79q

[26]v.nvsxp vafvusxvim.xvndvusxv xmfvndvM.mbsvm.vusxvpme;vkyuvusx
 niucafxvem.vragncny.povmuumiwx vkovXc.wafxvafvsa.vgcxmuv.bxxisvnfvusx
“Cagsu.vnfvZycax.q”v.xxvKcaua.svXpnhyxfixvkovGnn cais,vbbqv655-683q

[27]vIsmtkxc’.vXfiqvXfgqvPauq,vrnpv1,v176q

[28]

vvvvMf vsxppvau.xpdvkcxmusx.vnyuvinfumganfvunvusa.vencp q

vvvv--Smtpxu,vaa,v2q


[29]

vvvv“Fnevinyp vAv cafwvsnuvkpnn q”

vvvv--Smtpxuvaaa,v2q

“Usmuvonyvtmov cafwvonycvdappvmf vhymddvafvkpnn q”

vvvv--X emc vAAq,vaaa,v2q




vvvvvv*vvvvvv*vvvvvv*vvvvvv*vvvvvv*vvvvvv*




Ucmf.icakxc’.vfnux:

Nkrany.vbcafuxcvxccnc.vinccxiux v.apxfupoq

Afinf.a.uxfuv.bxppafgvmf vsobsxfmuanfvmcxvm.vafvusxvncagafmpq



***XF vNDvUSXvBCNZXIUvGYUXFKXCGvXKNNWvAUvEM.vTMCPNEX***


*******vUsa.vdapxv.snyp vkxvfmtx v57810-0qujuvncv57810-0qlabv*******


Usa.vmf vmppvm..niamux vdapx.vndvrmcany.vdnctmu.veappvkxvdnyf vaf:
suub://eeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg/ ac./5/7/8/1/57810


Yb mux vx auanf.veappvcxbpmixvusxvbcxrany.vnfx--usxvnp vx auanf.veapp
kxvcxfmtx q

Icxmuafgvusxvencw.vdcntvbcafuvx auanf.vfnuvbcnuxiux vkovYq.qvinbocagsu
pmevtxmf.vusmuvfnvnfxvnef.vmvYfaux v.umux.vinbocagsuvafvusx.xvencw.,
.nvusxvDnyf muanfv(mf vony!)vimfvinbovmf v a.ucakyuxvauvafvusxvYfaux 
.umux.veausnyuvbxcta..anfvmf veausnyuvbmoafgvinbocagsu
cnompuax.qv.bxiampvcypx.,v.xuvdncusvafvusxvGxfxcmpvUxct.vndvY.xvbmcu
ndvusa.vpaixf.x,vmbbpovunvinboafgvmf v a.ucakyuafgvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.vunvbcnuxiuvusxvBCNZXIUvGYUXFKXCG-ut
infixbuvmf vucm xtmcwqvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgva.vmvcxga.uxcx vucm xtmcw,
mf vtmovfnuvkxvy.x vadvonyvismcgxvdncvusxvxKnnw.,vyfpx..vonyvcxixarx
.bxiadaivbxcta..anfqvAdvonyv nvfnuvismcgxvmfousafgvdncvinbax.vndvusa.
xKnnw,vintbpoafgveausvusxvcypx.va.vrxcovxm.oqvOnyvtmovy.xvusa.vxKnnw
dncvfxmcpovmfovbycbn.xv.yisvm.vicxmuanfvndv xcarmuarxvencw.,vcxbncu.,
bxcdnctmfix.vmf vcx.xmcisqvUsxovtmovkxvtn adax vmf vbcafux vmf vgarxf
memo--onyvtmov nvbcmiuaimppovMFOUSAFGvafvusxvYfaux v.umux.veausvxKnnw.
fnuvbcnuxiux vkovYq.qvinbocagsuvpmeqvCx a.ucakyuanfva.v.ykzxiuvunvusx
ucm xtmcwvpaixf.x,vx.bxiamppovinttxciampvcx a.ucakyuanfq

.UMCU:vDYPPvPAIXF.X

USXvDYPPvBCNZXIUvGYUXFKXCGvPAIXF.X
BPXM.XvCXM vUSA.vKXDNCXvONYv A.UCAKYUXvNCvY.XvUSA.vENCW

UnvbcnuxiuvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvta..anfvndvbcntnuafgvusxvdcxx
 a.ucakyuanfvndvxpxiucnfaivencw.,vkovy.afgvncv a.ucakyuafgvusa.vencw
(ncvmfovnusxcvencwvm..niamux vafvmfovemoveausvusxvbscm.xv"Bcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg"),vonyvmgcxxvunvintbpoveausvmppvusxvuxct.vndvusxvDypp
BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvPaixf.xvmrmapmkpxveausvusa.vdapxvncvnfpafxvmu
eeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg/paixf.xq

.xiuanfv1qvGxfxcmpvUxct.vndvY.xvmf vCx a.ucakyuafgvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.

1qMqvKovcxm afgvncvy.afgvmfovbmcuvndvusa.vBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
xpxiucnfaivencw,vonyvaf aimuxvusmuvonyvsmrxvcxm ,vyf xc.umf ,vmgcxxvun
mf vmiixbuvmppvusxvuxct.vndvusa.vpaixf.xvmf vafuxppxiuympvbcnbxcuo
(ucm xtmcw/inbocagsu)vmgcxxtxfuqvAdvonyv nvfnuvmgcxxvunvmka xvkovmpp
usxvuxct.vndvusa.vmgcxxtxfu,vonyvty.uvixm.xvy.afgvmf vcxuycfvnc
 x.ucnovmppvinbax.vndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.vafvonyc
bn..x..anfqvAdvonyvbma vmvdxxvdncvnkumafafgvmvinbovndvncvmiix..vunvm
BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencwvmf vonyv nvfnuvmgcxxvunvkxvknyf 
kovusxvuxct.vndvusa.vmgcxxtxfu,vonyvtmovnkumafvmvcxdyf vdcntvusx
bxc.nfvncvxfuauovunvesntvonyvbma vusxvdxxvm.v.xuvdncusvafvbmcmgcmbs
1qXq8q

1qKqv"BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg"va.vmvcxga.uxcx vucm xtmcwqvAuvtmovnfpovkx
y.x vnfvncvm..niamux vafvmfovemoveausvmfvxpxiucnfaivencwvkovbxnbpxvesn
mgcxxvunvkxvknyf vkovusxvuxct.vndvusa.vmgcxxtxfuqvUsxcxvmcxvmvdxe
usafg.vusmuvonyvimfv nveausvtn.uvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.
xrxfveausnyuvintbpoafgveausvusxvdyppvuxct.vndvusa.vmgcxxtxfuqv.xx
bmcmgcmbsv1qIvkxpneqvUsxcxvmcxvmvpnuvndvusafg.vonyvimfv nveausvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.vadvonyvdnppnevusxvuxct.vndvusa.
mgcxxtxfuvmf vsxpbvbcx.xcrxvdcxxvdyuycxvmiix..vunvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
xpxiucnfaivencw.qv.xxvbmcmgcmbsv1qXvkxpneq

1qIqvUsxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanfv("usx
Dnyf muanf"vncvBGPMD),vnef.vmvintbapmuanfvinbocagsuvafvusxvinppxiuanf
ndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.qvFxmcpovmppvusxvaf ara ymp
encw.vafvusxvinppxiuanfvmcxvafvusxvbykpaiv ntmafvafvusxvYfaux 
.umux.qvAdvmfvaf ara ympvencwva.vyfbcnuxiux vkovinbocagsuvpmevafvusx
Yfaux v.umux.vmf vonyvmcxvpnimux vafvusxvYfaux v.umux.,vexv nvfnu
ipmatvmvcagsuvunvbcxrxfuvonyvdcntvinboafg,v a.ucakyuafg,vbxcdnctafg,
 a.bpmoafgvncvicxmuafgv xcarmuarxvencw.vkm.x vnfvusxvencwvm.vpnfgvm.
mppvcxdxcxfix.vunvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvmcxvcxtnrx qvNdvinyc.x,vexvsnbx
usmuvonyveappv.ybbncuvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvta..anfvndvbcntnuafg
dcxxvmiix..vunvxpxiucnfaivencw.vkovdcxxpov.smcafgvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
encw.vafvintbpamfixveausvusxvuxct.vndvusa.vmgcxxtxfuvdncvwxxbafgvusx
BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvfmtxvm..niamux veausvusxvencwqvOnyvimfvxm.apo
intbpoveausvusxvuxct.vndvusa.vmgcxxtxfuvkovwxxbafgvusa.vencwvafvusx
.mtxvdnctmuveausvau.vmuumisx vdyppvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvPaixf.xvesxf
onyv.smcxvauveausnyuvismcgxveausvnusxc.q

1q qvUsxvinbocagsuvpme.vndvusxvbpmixvesxcxvonyvmcxvpnimux vmp.nvgnrxcf
esmuvonyvimfv nveausvusa.vencwqvInbocagsuvpme.vafvtn.uvinyfucax.vmcx
afvmvinf.umfuv.umuxvndvismfgxqvAdvonyvmcxvnyu.a xvusxvYfaux v.umux.,
isxiwvusxvpme.vndvonycvinyfucovafvm  auanfvunvusxvuxct.vndvusa.
mgcxxtxfuvkxdncxv nefpnm afg,vinboafg,v a.bpmoafg,vbxcdnctafg,
 a.ucakyuafgvncvicxmuafgv xcarmuarxvencw.vkm.x vnfvusa.vencwvncvmfo
nusxcvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencwqvUsxvDnyf muanfvtmwx.vfn
cxbcx.xfumuanf.vinfixcfafgvusxvinbocagsuv.umuy.vndvmfovencwvafvmfo
inyfucovnyu.a xvusxvYfaux v.umux.q

1qXqvYfpx..vonyvsmrxvcxtnrx vmppvcxdxcxfix.vunvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg:

1qXq1qvUsxvdnppneafgv.xfuxfix,veausvmiuarxvpafw.vun,vncvnusxc
attx amuxvmiix..vun,vusxvdyppvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvPaixf.xvty.uvmbbxmc
bcntafxfupovesxfxrxcvmfovinbovndvmvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencwv(mfovencw
nfvesaisvusxvbscm.xv"BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg"vmbbxmc.,vncveausvesaisvusx
bscm.xv"BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg"va.vm..niamux )va.vmiix..x ,v a.bpmox ,
bxcdnctx ,vraxex ,vinbax vncv a.ucakyux :

vvUsa.vxKnnwva.vdncvusxvy.xvndvmfonfxvmfoesxcxvafvusxvYfaux v.umux.vmf 
vvtn.uvnusxcvbmcu.vndvusxvencp vmuvfnvin.uvmf veausvmptn.uvfn
vvcx.ucaiuanf.vesmu.nxrxcqvOnyvtmovinbovau,vgarxvauvmemovncvcx-y.xvau
vvyf xcvusxvuxct.vndvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPaixf.xvafipy x veausvusa.
vvxKnnwvncvnfpafxvmuveeeqgyuxfkxcgqncgqvAdvonyvmcxvfnuvpnimux vafvusx
vvYfaux v.umux.,vony'ppvsmrxvunvisxiwvusxvpme.vndvusxvinyfucovesxcxvony
vvmcxvpnimux vkxdncxvy.afgvusa.vxknnwq

1qXq2qvAdvmfvaf ara ympvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencwva.
 xcarx vdcntvuxju.vfnuvbcnuxiux vkovYq.qvinbocagsuvpmev( nx.vfnu
infumafvmvfnuaixvaf aimuafgvusmuvauva.vbn.ux veausvbxcta..anfvndvusx
inbocagsuvsnp xc),vusxvencwvimfvkxvinbax vmf v a.ucakyux vunvmfonfxvaf
usxvYfaux v.umux.veausnyuvbmoafgvmfovdxx.vncvismcgx.qvAdvonyvmcx
cx a.ucakyuafgvncvbcnra afgvmiix..vunvmvencwveausvusxvbscm.xv"Bcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg"vm..niamux veausvncvmbbxmcafgvnfvusxvencw,vonyvty.uvintbpo
xausxcveausvusxvcxhyacxtxfu.vndvbmcmgcmbs.v1qXq1vuscnygsv1qXq7vnc
nkumafvbxcta..anfvdncvusxvy.xvndvusxvencwvmf vusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
ucm xtmcwvm.v.xuvdncusvafvbmcmgcmbs.v1qXq8vncv1qXq9q

1qXq3qvAdvmfvaf ara ympvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencwva.vbn.ux 
eausvusxvbxcta..anfvndvusxvinbocagsuvsnp xc,vonycvy.xvmf v a.ucakyuanf
ty.uvintbpoveausvknusvbmcmgcmbs.v1qXq1vuscnygsv1qXq7vmf vmfo
m  auanfmpvuxct.vatbn.x vkovusxvinbocagsuvsnp xcqvM  auanfmpvuxct.
eappvkxvpafwx vunvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvPaixf.xvdncvmppvencw.
bn.ux veausvusxvbxcta..anfvndvusxvinbocagsuvsnp xcvdnyf vmuvusx
kxgaffafgvndvusa.vencwq

1qXq4qv nvfnuvyfpafwvncv xumisvncvcxtnrxvusxvdyppvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
Paixf.xvuxct.vdcntvusa.vencw,vncvmfovdapx.vinfumafafgvmvbmcuvndvusa.
encwvncvmfovnusxcvencwvm..niamux veausvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utq

1qXq5qv nvfnuvinbo,v a.bpmo,vbxcdnct,v a.ucakyuxvncvcx a.ucakyuxvusa.
xpxiucnfaivencw,vncvmfovbmcuvndvusa.vxpxiucnfaivencw,veausnyu
bcntafxfupov a.bpmoafgvusxv.xfuxfixv.xuvdncusvafvbmcmgcmbsv1qXq1veaus
miuarxvpafw.vncvattx amuxvmiix..vunvusxvdyppvuxct.vndvusxvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvPaixf.xq

1qXq6qvOnyvtmovinfrxcuvunvmf v a.ucakyuxvusa.vencwvafvmfovkafmco,
intbcx..x ,vtmcwx vyb,vfnfbcnbcaxumcovncvbcnbcaxumcovdnct,vafipy afg
mfovenc vbcnix..afgvncvsobxcuxjuvdnctqvSnexrxc,vadvonyvbcnra xvmiix..
unvncv a.ucakyuxvinbax.vndvmvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencwvafvmvdnctmu
nusxcvusmfv"BpmafvRmfappmvM.IAA"vncvnusxcvdnctmuvy.x vafvusxvnddaiamp
rxc.anfvbn.ux vnfvusxvnddaiampvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvexkv.aux
(eeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg),vonyvty.u,vmuvfnvm  auanfmpvin.u,vdxxvncvxjbxf.x
unvusxvy.xc,vbcnra xvmvinbo,vmvtxmf.vndvxjbncuafgvmvinbo,vncvmvtxmf.
ndvnkumafafgvmvinbovybnfvcxhyx.u,vndvusxvencwvafvau.vncagafmpv"Bpmaf
RmfappmvM.IAA"vncvnusxcvdnctqvMfovmpuxcfmuxvdnctmuvty.uvafipy xvusx
dyppvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvPaixf.xvm.v.bxiadax vafvbmcmgcmbsv1qXq1q

1qXq7qv nvfnuvismcgxvmvdxxvdncvmiix..vun,vraxeafg,v a.bpmoafg,
bxcdnctafg,vinboafgvncv a.ucakyuafgvmfovBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencw.
yfpx..vonyvintbpoveausvbmcmgcmbsv1qXq8vncv1qXq9q

1qXq8qvOnyvtmovismcgxvmvcxm.nfmkpxvdxxvdncvinbax.vndvncvbcnra afg
miix..vunvncv a.ucakyuafgvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.
bcnra x vusmu

*vOnyvbmovmvcnompuovdxxvndv20%vndvusxvgcn..vbcndau.vonyv xcarxvdcnt
vvusxvy.xvndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencw.vimpiypmux vy.afgvusxvtxusn 
vvonyvmpcxm ovy.xvunvimpiypmuxvonycvmbbpaimkpxvumjx.qvUsxvdxxva.vnex 
vvunvusxvnefxcvndvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvucm xtmcw,vkyuvsxvsm.
vvmgcxx vunv nfmuxvcnompuax.vyf xcvusa.vbmcmgcmbsvunvusxvBcnzxiu
vvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanfqvCnompuovbmotxfu.vty.uvkxvbma 
vveausafv60v mo.vdnppneafgvxmisv muxvnfvesaisvonyvbcxbmcxv(ncvmcx
vvpxgmppovcxhyacx vunvbcxbmcx)vonycvbxcan aivumjvcxuycf.qvCnompuo
vvbmotxfu.v.snyp vkxvipxmcpovtmcwx vm.v.yisvmf v.xfuvunvusxvBcnzxiu
vvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanfvmuvusxvm  cx..v.bxiadax vaf
vv.xiuanfv4,v"Afdnctmuanfvmknyuv nfmuanf.vunvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg
vvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanfq"

*vOnyvbcnra xvmvdyppvcxdyf vndvmfovtnfxovbma vkovmvy.xcvesnvfnuadax.
vvonyvafvecauafgv(ncvkovx-tmap)veausafv30v mo.vndvcxixabuvusmuv./sx
vv nx.vfnuvmgcxxvunvusxvuxct.vndvusxvdyppvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
vvPaixf.xqvOnyvty.uvcxhyacxv.yisvmvy.xcvunvcxuycfvncv x.ucnovmpp
vvinbax.vndvusxvencw.vbn..x..x vafvmvbso.aimpvtx aytvmf v a.infuafyx
vvmppvy.xvndvmf vmppvmiix..vunvnusxcvinbax.vndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
vvencw.q

*vOnyvbcnra x,vafvmiinc mfixveausvbmcmgcmbsv1qDq3,vmvdyppvcxdyf vnd
vvmfovtnfxovbma vdncvmvencwvncvmvcxbpmixtxfuvinbo,vadvmv xdxiuvafvusx
vvxpxiucnfaivencwva.v a.inrxcx vmf vcxbncux vunvonyveausafv90v mo.vnd
vvcxixabuvndvusxvencwq

*vOnyvintbpoveausvmppvnusxcvuxct.vndvusa.vmgcxxtxfuvdncvdcxx
vv a.ucakyuanfvndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencw.q

1qXq9qvAdvonyvea.svunvismcgxvmvdxxvncv a.ucakyuxvmvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencwvncvgcnybvndvencw.vnfv addxcxfuvuxct.vusmf
mcxv.xuvdncusvafvusa.vmgcxxtxfu,vonyvty.uvnkumafvbxcta..anfvafvecauafg
dcntvknusvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanfvmf vUsx
BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvUcm xtmcwvPPI,vusxvnefxcvndvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
ucm xtmcwqvInfumiuvusxvDnyf muanfvm.v.xuvdncusvafv.xiuanfv3vkxpneq

1qDq

1qDq1qvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvrnpyfuxxc.vmf vxtbpnoxx.vxjbxf vinf.a xcmkpx
xddncuvunva xfuado,v nvinbocagsuvcx.xmcisvnf,vucmf.icakxvmf vbcnndcxm 
encw.vfnuvbcnuxiux vkovYq.qvinbocagsuvpmevafvicxmuafgvusxvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvinppxiuanfqv x.bauxvusx.xvxddncu.,vBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
xpxiucnfaivencw.,vmf vusxvtx aytvnfvesaisvusxovtmovkxv.uncx ,vtmo
infumafv" xdxiu.,"v.yisvm.,vkyuvfnuvpataux vun,vafintbpxux,vafmiiycmux
ncvinccybuv mum,vucmf.icabuanfvxccnc.,vmvinbocagsuvncvnusxc
afuxppxiuympvbcnbxcuovafdcafgxtxfu,vmv xdxiuarxvncv mtmgx v a.wvnc
nusxcvtx ayt,vmvintbyuxcvracy.,vncvintbyuxcvin x.vusmuv mtmgxvnc
imffnuvkxvcxm vkovonycvxhyabtxfuq

1qDq2qvPATAUX vEMCCMFUO,v A.IPMATXCvNDv MTMGX.v-vXjixbuvdncvusxv"Cagsu
ndvCxbpmixtxfuvncvCxdyf "v x.icakx vafvbmcmgcmbsv1qDq3,vusxvBcnzxiu
GyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanf,vusxvnefxcvndvusxvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvucm xtmcw,vmf vmfovnusxcvbmcuov a.ucakyuafgvmvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencwvyf xcvusa.vmgcxxtxfu,v a.ipmatvmpp
pamkapauovunvonyvdncv mtmgx.,vin.u.vmf vxjbxf.x.,vafipy afgvpxgmp
dxx.qvONYvMGCXXvUSMUvONYvSMRXvFNvCXTX AX.vDNCvFXGPAGXFIX,v.UCAIU
PAMKAPAUO,vKCXMISvNDvEMCCMFUOvNCvKCXMISvNDvINFUCMIUvXJIXBUvUSN.X
BCNRA X vAFvBMCMGCMBSv1qDq3qvONYvMGCXXvUSMUvUSXvDNYF MUANF,vUSX
UCM XTMCWvNEFXC,vMF vMFOv A.UCAKYUNCvYF XCvUSA.vMGCXXTXFUvEAPPvFNUvKX
PAMKPXvUNvONYvDNCvMIUYMP,v ACXIU,vAF ACXIU,vINF.XHYXFUAMP,vBYFAUARXvNC
AFIA XFUMPv MTMGX.vXRXFvADvONYvGARXvFNUAIXvNDvUSXvBN..AKAPAUOvNDv.YIS
 MTMGXq

1qDq3qvPATAUX vCAGSUvNDvCXBPMIXTXFUvNCvCXDYF v-vAdvonyv a.inrxcvm
 xdxiuvafvusa.vxpxiucnfaivencwveausafv90v mo.vndvcxixarafgvau,vonyvimf
cxixarxvmvcxdyf vndvusxvtnfxov(advmfo)vonyvbma vdncvauvkov.xf afgvm
ecauuxfvxjbpmfmuanfvunvusxvbxc.nfvonyvcxixarx vusxvencwvdcntqvAdvony
cxixarx vusxvencwvnfvmvbso.aimpvtx ayt,vonyvty.uvcxuycfvusxvtx ayt
eausvonycvecauuxfvxjbpmfmuanfqvUsxvbxc.nfvncvxfuauovusmuvbcnra x vony
eausvusxv xdxiuarxvencwvtmovxpxiuvunvbcnra xvmvcxbpmixtxfuvinbovaf
paxyvndvmvcxdyf qvAdvonyvcxixarx vusxvencwvxpxiucnfaimppo,vusxvbxc.nf
ncvxfuauovbcnra afgvauvunvonyvtmovisnn.xvunvgarxvonyvmv.xinf 
nbbncuyfauovunvcxixarxvusxvencwvxpxiucnfaimppovafvpaxyvndvmvcxdyf qvAd
usxv.xinf vinbova.vmp.nv xdxiuarx,vonyvtmov xtmf vmvcxdyf vafvecauafg
eausnyuvdycusxcvnbbncuyfauax.vunvdajvusxvbcnkpxtq

1qDq4qvXjixbuvdncvusxvpataux vcagsuvndvcxbpmixtxfuvncvcxdyf v.xuvdncus
afvbmcmgcmbsv1qDq3,vusa.vencwva.vbcnra x vunvonyv'M.-A.',vEAUSvFN
NUSXCvEMCCMFUAX.vNDvMFOvWAF ,vXJBCX..vNCvATBPAX ,vAFIPY AFGvKYUvFNU
PATAUX vUNvEMCCMFUAX.vNDvTXCISMFUMKAPAUOvNCvDAUFX..vDNCvMFOvBYCBN.Xq

1qDq5qv.ntxv.umux.v nvfnuvmppnev a.ipmatxc.vndvixcumafvatbpax 
emccmfuax.vncvusxvxjipy.anfvncvpataumuanfvndvixcumafvuobx.vnd
 mtmgx.qvAdvmfov a.ipmatxcvncvpataumuanfv.xuvdncusvafvusa.vmgcxxtxfu
ranpmux.vusxvpmevndvusxv.umuxvmbbpaimkpxvunvusa.vmgcxxtxfu,vusx
mgcxxtxfuv.smppvkxvafuxcbcxux vunvtmwxvusxvtmjatytv a.ipmatxcvnc
pataumuanfvbxctauux vkovusxvmbbpaimkpxv.umuxvpmeqvUsxvafrmpa auovnc
yfxfdncixmkapauovndvmfovbcnra.anfvndvusa.vmgcxxtxfuv.smppvfnuvrna vusx
cxtmafafgvbcnra.anf.q

1qDq6qvAF XTFAUOv-vOnyvmgcxxvunvaf xtfadovmf vsnp vusxvDnyf muanf,vusx
ucm xtmcwvnefxc,vmfovmgxfuvncvxtbpnoxxvndvusxvDnyf muanf,vmfonfx
bcnra afgvinbax.vndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.vaf
miinc mfixveausvusa.vmgcxxtxfu,vmf vmfovrnpyfuxxc.vm..niamux veausvusx
bcn yiuanf,vbcntnuanfvmf v a.ucakyuanfvndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut
xpxiucnfaivencw.,vsmctpx..vdcntvmppvpamkapauo,vin.u.vmf vxjbxf.x.,
afipy afgvpxgmpvdxx.,vusmuvmca.xv acxiupovncvaf acxiupovdcntvmfovnd
usxvdnppneafgvesaisvonyv nvncvimy.xvunvniiyc:v(m)v a.ucakyuanfvndvusa.
ncvmfovBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencw,v(k)vmpuxcmuanf,vtn adaimuanf,vnc
m  auanf.vncv xpxuanf.vunvmfovBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvencw,vmf v(i)vmfo
 xdxiuvonyvimy.xq

.xiuanfv2qvAfdnctmuanfvmknyuvusxvTa..anfvndvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut

BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utva.v.ofnfotny.veausvusxvdcxxv a.ucakyuanfvnd
xpxiucnfaivencw.vafvdnctmu.vcxm mkpxvkovusxvea x.uvrmcaxuovnd
intbyuxc.vafipy afgvnk.npxux,vnp ,vta  px-mgx vmf vfxevintbyuxc.qvAu
xja.u.vkximy.xvndvusxvxddncu.vndvsyf cx .vndvrnpyfuxxc.vmf v nfmuanf.
dcntvbxnbpxvafvmppvempw.vndvpadxq

Rnpyfuxxc.vmf vdafmfiampv.ybbncuvunvbcnra xvrnpyfuxxc.veausvusx
m..a.umfixvusxovfxx vmcxvicauaimpvunvcxmisafgvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut'.
gnmp.vmf vxf.ycafgvusmuvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvinppxiuanfveapp
cxtmafvdcxxpovmrmapmkpxvdncvgxfxcmuanf.vunvintxqvAfv2001,vusxvBcnzxiu
GyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanfvem.vicxmux vunvbcnra xvmv.xiycx
mf vbxctmfxfuvdyuycxvdncvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvmf vdyuycx
gxfxcmuanf.qvUnvpxmcfvtncxvmknyuvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmco
McisarxvDnyf muanfvmf vsnevonycvxddncu.vmf v nfmuanf.vimfvsxpb,v.xx
.xiuanf.v3vmf v4vmf vusxvDnyf muanfvafdnctmuanfvbmgxvmu
eeeqgyuxfkxcgqncgv

.xiuanfv3qvAfdnctmuanfvmknyuvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcov
McisarxvDnyf muanf

UsxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanfva.vmvfnfvbcndau
501(i)(3)vx yimuanfmpvincbncmuanfvncgmfalx vyf xcvusxvpme.vndvusx
.umuxvndvTa..a..abbavmf vgcmfux vumjvxjxtbuv.umuy.vkovusxvAfuxcfmp
Cxrxfyxv.xcraixqvUsxvDnyf muanf'.vXAFvncvdx xcmpvumjva xfuadaimuanf
fytkxcva.v64-6221541qvInfucakyuanf.vunvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmco
McisarxvDnyf muanfvmcxvumjv x yiuakpxvunvusxvdyppvxjuxfuvbxctauux vko
Yq.qvdx xcmpvpme.vmf vonycv.umux'.vpme.q

UsxvDnyf muanf'.vbcafiabmpvnddaixva.vafvDmackmfw.,vMpm.wm,veausvusx
tmapafgvm  cx..:vBNvKnjv750175,vDmackmfw.,vMWv99775,vkyuvau.
rnpyfuxxc.vmf vxtbpnoxx.vmcxv.imuuxcx vuscnygsnyuvfytxcny.
pnimuanf.qvAu.vky.afx..vnddaixva.vpnimux vmuv809vFncusv1500vEx.u,v.mpu
PmwxvIauo,vYUv84116,v(801)v596-1887qvXtmapvinfumiuvpafw.vmf vybvun
 muxvinfumiuvafdnctmuanfvimfvkxvdnyf vmuvusxvDnyf muanf'.vexkv.auxvmf 
nddaiampvbmgxvmuveeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg/infumiu

Dncvm  auanfmpvinfumiuvafdnctmuanf:

vvvv cqvGcxgncovKqvFxeko
vvvvIsaxdvXjxiyuarxvmf v acxiunc
vvvvgkfxeko@bgpmdqncg

.xiuanfv4qvAfdnctmuanfvmknyuv nfmuanf.vunvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg
PauxcmcovMcisarxvDnyf muanf

BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utv xbxf .vybnfvmf vimffnuv.ycrarxveausnyuvea x
.bcxm vbykpaiv.ybbncuvmf v nfmuanf.vunvimccovnyuvau.vta..anfvnd
aficxm.afgvusxvfytkxcvndvbykpaiv ntmafvmf vpaixf.x vencw.vusmuvimfvkx
dcxxpov a.ucakyux vafvtmisafxvcxm mkpxvdnctvmiix..akpxvkovusxvea x.u
mccmovndvxhyabtxfuvafipy afgvnyu mux vxhyabtxfuqvTmfov.tmppv nfmuanf.
($1vunv$5,000)vmcxvbmcuaiypmcpovatbncumfuvunvtmafumafafgvumjvxjxtbu
.umuy.veausvusxvAC.q

UsxvDnyf muanfva.vinttauux vunvintbpoafgveausvusxvpme.vcxgypmuafg
ismcauax.vmf vismcaumkpxv nfmuanf.vafvmppv50v.umux.vndvusxvYfaux 
.umux.qvIntbpamfixvcxhyacxtxfu.vmcxvfnuvyfadnctvmf vauvumwx.vm
inf.a xcmkpxvxddncu,vtyisvbmbxcencwvmf vtmfovdxx.vunvtxxuvmf vwxxbvyb
eausvusx.xvcxhyacxtxfu.qvExv nvfnuv.npaiauv nfmuanf.vafvpnimuanf.
esxcxvexvsmrxvfnuvcxixarx vecauuxfvinfdactmuanfvndvintbpamfixqvUnv.XF 
 NFMUANF.vncv xuxctafxvusxv.umuy.vndvintbpamfixvdncvmfovbmcuaiypmc
.umuxvra.auveeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg/ nfmux

Esapxvexvimffnuvmf v nvfnuv.npaiauvinfucakyuanf.vdcntv.umux.vesxcxvex
smrxvfnuvtxuvusxv.npaiaumuanfvcxhyacxtxfu.,vexvwfnevndvfnvbcnsakauanf
mgmaf.uvmiixbuafgvyf.npaiaux v nfmuanf.vdcntv nfnc.vafv.yisv.umux.vesn
mbbcnmisvy.veausvnddxc.vunv nfmuxq

Afuxcfmuanfmpv nfmuanf.vmcxvgcmuxdyppovmiixbux ,vkyuvexvimffnuvtmwx
mfov.umuxtxfu.vinfixcfafgvumjvucxmutxfuvndv nfmuanf.vcxixarx vdcnt
nyu.a xvusxvYfaux v.umux.qvYq.qvpme.vmpnfxv.emtbvnycv.tmppv.umddq

Bpxm.xvisxiwvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvExkvbmgx.vdncviyccxfuv nfmuanf
txusn .vmf vm  cx..x.qv nfmuanf.vmcxvmiixbux vafvmvfytkxcvndvnusxc
emo.vafipy afgvisxiw.,vnfpafxvbmotxfu.vmf vicx auvimc v nfmuanf.qvUn
 nfmux,vbpxm.xvra.au:veeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg/ nfmux

.xiuanfv5qvGxfxcmpvAfdnctmuanfvMknyuvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxpxiucnfaivencw.q

Bcndx..ncvTaismxpv.qvSmcuvem.vusxvncagafmuncvndvusxvBcnzxiu
Gyuxfkxcg-utvinfixbuvndvmvpakcmcovndvxpxiucnfaivencw.vusmuvinyp vkx
dcxxpov.smcx veausvmfonfxqvDncvdncuovoxmc.,vsxvbcn yix vmf 
 a.ucakyux vBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxKnnw.veausvnfpovmvpnn.xvfxuencwvnd
rnpyfuxxcv.ybbncuq

BcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-utvxKnnw.vmcxvnduxfvicxmux vdcntv.xrxcmpvbcafux 
x auanf.,vmppvndvesaisvmcxvinfdactx vm.vfnuvbcnuxiux vkovinbocagsuvaf
usxvYq.qvyfpx..vmvinbocagsuvfnuaixva.vafipy x qvUsy.,vexv nvfnu
fxix..mcapovwxxbvxKnnw.vafvintbpamfixveausvmfovbmcuaiypmcvbmbxc
x auanfq

Tn.uvbxnbpxv.umcuvmuvnycvExkv.auxvesaisvsm.vusxvtmafvBGv.xmcis
dmiapauo:veeeqgyuxfkxcgqncg

Usa.vExkv.auxvafipy x.vafdnctmuanfvmknyuvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcg-ut,
afipy afgvsnevunvtmwxv nfmuanf.vunvusxvBcnzxiuvGyuxfkxcgvPauxcmco
McisarxvDnyf muanf,vsnevunvsxpbvbcn yixvnycvfxevxKnnw.,vmf vsnevun
.yk.icakxvunvnycvxtmapvfxe.pxuuxcvunvsxmcvmknyuvfxevxKnnw.q